The oceans are rising faster than at any point in the last 28 centuries, and human emissions of greenhouse gases are primarily responsible, scientists reported Monday.
They added that the flooding that is starting to make life miserable in many coastal towns ― like Miami Beach; Norfolk, Va.; and Charleston, S.C. ― was largely a consequence of those emissions, and that it is likely to grow worse in coming years.
The scientists confirmed previous estimates, but with a larger data set, that if global emissions continue at a high rate over the next few decades, the ocean could rise as much as three or four feet by 2100, as ocean water expands and the great ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica begin to collapse.
Experts say the situation will grow far worse in the 22nd century and beyond, likely requiring the abandonment of many of the world’s coastal cities.
I think we can definitely be confident that sea-level rise is going to continue to accelerate if there’s further warming, which inevitably there will be,” said Stefan Rahmstorf, a professor of ocean physics at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany and co-author of a paper released Monday by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Ice simply melts faster when the temperatures get higher,” Dr. Rahmstorf added. “That’s just basic physics.
In a report issued at the same time as the scientific paper, a climate research and communications organization in Princeton, N.J., Climate Central, used the new findings to calculate that roughly three-quarters of the tidal floods now occurring in towns along the American East Coast would not be happening in the absence of sea-level rise caused by human emissions.
The lead author of that report, Benjamin H. Strauss, said the same was likely to be true on a global scale, in any coastal community that has seen an increase of saltwater flooding in recent decades.
Local factors do come into play, though: Communities on land that is sinking, as in the Chesapeake Bay region of the United States, are being hit especially hard by the rising sea level.
Tidal floods are occurring more frequently, and are becoming a strain in many towns by killing lawns and trees, polluting supplies of fresh water, blocking streets in the middle of sunny afternoons and sometimes stranding entire island communities for hours by covering the roads to the mainland.
I think we need a new way to think about most coastal flooding,” Dr. Strauss said in an interview. “It’s not the tide. It’s not the wind. It’s us. That’s true for most of the coastal floods we now experience.
The new research was led by Robert E. Kopp, an earth scientist at Rutgers University who has won respect from his colleagues by bringing elaborate statistical techniques to bear on longstanding problems, like understanding the history of global sea level.
Scientists already knew that the sea level rose drastically at the end of the last ice age, by almost 400 feet, causing shorelines to retreat by up to 100 miles in places. They also knew that the sea level had basically stabilized, like the rest of the climate, over the past several thousand years, the period when human civilization arose and spread across the earth.
There were small variations of climate and sea level over that period, and several recent papers have tried to clarify these. The new paper confirms a central finding of the earlier research, that the sharp increase of sea level in the 20th century was unprecedented over thousands of years, but does so with a larger data set that may add to the confidence scientists place in the results.
The paper confirms that the ocean is exquisitely sensitive to small variations in the earth’s temperature ― a portentous finding, given that human emissions are inducing a large temperature rise.
The researchers found that when the average global temperature fell by a third of a degree Fahrenheit in the Middle Ages, for instance, ice started to build up on land, and the volume of ocean water contracted, causing the average surface of the ocean to fall by about three inches over 400 years. When the climate warmed slightly, that trend reversed.
Physics tells us that sea-level change and temperature change should go hand in hand,” Dr. Kopp said. “This new geological record confirms it.
In the 19th century, as the Industrial Revolution took hold, the oceans began to rise, and have gone up by about eight inches since 1880. That may sound small, but the increase has caused extensive erosion worldwide, and governments are spending billions of dollars to try to shore up beaches and other coastal defenses.
Largely because of human emissions, global temperatures have jumped by about 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit since the 19th century. Land ice has started to melt all over the planet, and seawater is expanding as it absorbs heat. The seas are rising at what appears to be an accelerating pace, lately reaching a rate of about a foot per century.
One of the authors of the new paper, Dr. Rahmstorf, had previously published estimates suggesting the seas could rise as much as five or six feet by 2100. But with the improved calculations from the new paper, his latest upper estimate is three to four feet.
That means Dr. Rahmstorf’s estimate is now more consistent with calculations issued in 2013 by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations body that periodically reviews and summarizes climate research. The panel found that continued high emissions might produce a sea rise of 1.7 to 3.2 feet over the 21st century.
Dr. Rahmstorf said, however, that the rise would eventually exceed three feet ― the only question is how long it will take. The recent climate agreement negotiated in Paris, if acted upon, will bring emissions down enough to slow the rate of sea-level rise in coming centuries, but scientists say the deal was not remotely ambitious enough to forestall a significant melting of the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets.
On a geologic time scale, the recent, human-induced planetary warming has been quite sudden, and the huge ice sheets have only just started to respond.
The upper estimate of three to four feet of sea-level rise in the 21st century rules out any large contribution from Antarctica in the near term, but that finding is tentative, given that the ice covering the western part of that continent is already showing signs of instability. And recent studies suggest that the destruction of large parts of the Antarctic ice sheet may have become inevitable, even though that could take hundreds or thousands of years to play out.
Sea level is going to continue going up for many centuries,” Dr. Rahmstorf said.



As diagnostic tests rely on ever-tinier amounts of blood, some scientists are striking a note of caution. As it turns out, not all drops of blood are identical.
Bioengineers at Rice University recently found that different drops from single fingerpricks on multiple subjects varied substantially on results for basic health measures like hemoglobin, white blood cell counts and platelet counts.
Their study was published in The American Journal of Clinical Pathology.
To get results as accurate as those achieved by the traditional method ― inserting a needle into an arm vein ― the investigators had to average the results of six to nine drops, said Rebecca Richards-Kortum, the director of Rice 360°: Institute for Global Health Technologies, which did the research.
The investigators were careful not to squeeze or “milk” the subjects’ fingers, which has been known to invalidate results, said Meaghan Bond, the Rice bioengineering student who did the study with Dr. Richards-Kortum.
Instead, the researchers used long lancets. But some subjects still had to be excluded because they stopped bleeding too quickly.
In poor countries, clinics in remote areas are eager for tests that can be done rapidly and without electricity, especially when no one trained to pierce veins is available. Donors like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation support numerous “lab in a box” or “lab on a chip” efforts to detect diseases like sickle-cell anemia, H.I.V. and malaria.
For patients in wealthy countries who fear needles or could benefit from point-of-care tests, companies like Theranos are miniaturizing collection vials and trying to do numerous tests on them ― not always successfully.
“If you’re going to take a fingerprick stick to get your measures, you need to be aware that you’re sacrificing some accuracy,” Ms. Bond said.



GUILDFORD, England ― On the outskirts of this sleepy commuter town just south of London, plans are underway to build the fastest cellphone network in the world.
The work is being done at the University of Surrey, where a leafy campus is dotted with rundown Brutalist-style buildings. Here, researchers and some of the world’s biggest tech companies, including Samsung and Fujitsu, are collaborating to offer mobile Internet speeds more than 100 times faster than anything now available.
Their work on so-called fifth-generation, or 5G, wireless technology is set to be completed in early 2018 and would, for example, let students download entire movies to smartphones or tablets in less than five seconds, compared with as much as eight minutes with current fourth-generation, or 4G, technology. Companies also could connect millions of devices ― including smartwatches and tiny sensors on home appliances ― to the new cellphone network, and automakers could potentially test driverless cars around the suburban campus.
A lot of the technology already works in a laboratory environment,” said Rahim Tafazolli, director of the university’s research center that oversees the 5G project, which includes almost 70 powerful radio antennas around the two-square-mile campus. “Now, we have to prove it works in real life.
The work by Dr. Tafazolli and his team puts them at the heart of a heated race. Fueled by people’s insatiable appetite for accessing videos, social media and other entertainment on their mobile devices, many of the world’s largest carriers, like AT&T and NTT DoCoMo of Japan, are rushing to be the first to offer customers this next-generation ultrafast wireless technology.
The competition has led to research worth billions of dollars from telecommunications equipment makers like Ericsson of Sweden and Huawei of China, which are hoping to secure lucrative contracts to upgrade the mobile Internet infrastructure of operators like AT&T from the United States and China Mobile in Asia. Those plans have become even faster paced as tech giants including Google consider their own ambitions for the latest, and fastest, high-speed Internet.
Everyone is rushing to demonstrate they are a leading player for 5G,” said Bengt Nordstrom, co-founder of Northstream, a telecom consulting firm, in Stockholm.
The efforts around 5G will be on display at Mobile World Congress, a four-day tech and telecom event in Barcelona that begins on Monday. Most of the world’s largest operators and device makers like Samsung are expected to announce their latest wireless technology, including smartphones, wearable products and digital applications at the trade show.
Not to be outdone, telecom manufacturers also have announced glitzy demonstrations ― including driverless cars, remote-controlled drones and autonomous robots balancing balls on tablets ― to showcase their 5G credibility. The need to persuade carriers to buy the latest wireless technology has become ever more important as operators consider cutting investment plans in the face of a global economic downturn.
If we miss the chance to make our networks relevant, it will be a disaster,” said Ulf Ewaldsson, Ericsson’s chief technology officer. “The billion-dollar question is what will a 5G network look like?
Despite companies’ efforts to outspend each other, that question remains unanswered.
A global standard for 5G wireless technology will not be finished before 2019, at the earliest. Companies worldwide must agree on how their networks talk to each other, so users’ mobile connections do not become patchy when traveling overseas. That involves lengthy negotiations over what type of radio waves the new technology should use, among other complicated global agreements, which can take years.
As a result, carriers, telecom equipment makers and tech companies are lobbying global-standard bodies and national lawmakers to promote their own technologies over rivals’, according to industry executives and telecom analysts. Because of this jockeying, a widespread rollout of 5G networks is not expected until well into the next decade.
Some analysts question why carriers are focusing on the next generation of wireless technology when many parts of the world, particularly in emerging markets, still suffer from achingly slow mobile Internet access. And industry experts say mobile Internet speeds in much of the developed world, especially in places like South Korea, where connections are often comparable to traditional broadband, already meet people’s needs.
A lot of this is about carriers and equipment makers looking for new ways to make money,” said Thomas Husson, an analyst at Forrester Research in Paris. “Consumers shouldn’t expect great things until after 2020.
These challenges have not stopped companies from staking a claim in hopes of being at the forefront of 5G.
That is particularly true ahead of major global sporting events like the Olympics and the World Cup, at which carriers and national governments want to promote their technological know-how. At the 2018 World Cup, which will be held in Russia, for instance, the local operators MegaFon and MTS are expected to test 5G-style services, including ultrafast mobile Internet, even without global standards in place.
The Korean mobile operator KT also plans to offer its own version of 5G technology at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and NTT DoCoMo has said it will have similar trials ready for the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.
The only way of learning is by doing,” said Mats Svardh, head of networks at the Scandinavian carrier TeliaSonera, which will test its own 5G technology in both Stockholm and Tallinn, Estonia, in 2018. “It’s about putting pressure on ourselves to move forward with specifics, not just theories.
United States carriers have also jumped on the 5G bandwagon, partly to offer people new services as current mobile speeds have become relatively interchangeable between major operators nationwide.
Last year, Verizon Wireless announced that it would start testing new wireless technology in 2016 in order to offer new services, including potentially ultrafast mobile Internet, sometime next year. Last month, AT&T countered with its own tests ― expected to start in Austin, Tex., by the end of 2016 ― that could offer mobile speeds roughly 100 times faster than its current offering.“We will be ready when it’s ready,” said John Donovan, AT&T’s chief strategy officer, who added that traditional rivals like Verizon and new arrivals like Google could eventually compete to offer 5G services. “Everywhere you don’t solve a problem, someone else might step in.
For Dr. Tafazolli, of the University of Surrey, whose team started working on 5G in late 2011, these battles have led to an increasing number of companies offering support ― including the use of high-speed computer servers, costly radio antennas and millions of dollars of financing to research and build the next-generation wireless network on his college campus, he said. Their primary goal: to test their latest technology in a real-world setting.
In the race to 5G, everyone wants to be first,” he said.



HONG KONG ― The theft of dogs, often to be resold as meat, is a sad reality for people with pets in China. But the theft of one 7-year-old black Labrador in Beijing on Monday has provoked an unusual outcry.
The dog, Qiaoqiao, is no average pet. She was trained as a guide dog and has spent the past six years as a companion to Tian Fengbo, a 47-year-old blind man who lives in a village on the outskirts of the Chinese capital.
Mr. Tian has worked as a masseur, a common occupation for blind people in China, and now operates a massage parlor chain. He had left Qiaoqiao at one of his outlets overnight. An assistant was walking the dog Monday morning when men in a gray van stole her. Neighbors told The Beijing Morning News that the village had had a rash of dog thefts in recent days.
Mr. Tian said he had barely eaten or slept since his companion was taken.
I lost my sight in an accident and have been through many difficulties. But now that Qiaoqiao is gone, I feel like there is something very heavy blocking my chest,” Mr. Tian said. “Qiaoqiao always accompanied me. She was like a friend to me. Now I feel like I’ve lost a close friend.
He said he remained optimistic that the police would find the dog, since security cameras in his village had recorded the van that carried Qiaoqiao away. The license plate was from neighboring Hebei Province, although he said the number was unclear.
Qiaoqiao is one of about 10 registered guide dogs in Beijing, a city of more than 20 million, and one of about 100 in the entire country, according to officials at China’s main guide-dog training center in the coastal city of Dalian.
The lack of service animals is part of China’s mixed record of improving the lives of its disabled citizens. Deng Pufang brought a new focus to long-overlooked needs.
But advocates say many barriers persist. Disabled people face discrimination in education and employment, and Chinese cities are far from fully accessible. Some aids are obvious, like the textured paving strips for visually impaired people that line most sidewalks in major cities. But many buildings still lack wheelchair ramps, and guide dogs are often unwelcome in public places.
Disability advocates saw the 2008 Paralympics in Beijing as a breakthrough. As with the Summer Olympics that proceeded it, China went to great lengths to prepare for the event. Street-level pedestrian crossings were built to offer alternatives to underpasses with lengthy stairways. The Forbidden City underwent expensive renovations to allow wheelchair access. And service animals were given a rare moment of attention after Ping Yali, a blind long-jumper and China’s first Paralympic gold medalist, carried the torch into the opening ceremony alongside her guide dog, Lucky.
Lucky was Beijing’s first guide dog, and Ms. Ping was a vocal advocate. She spoke of the barriers she experienced in Beijing, where large dogs are banned in the city center. The police made an exception for Lucky in 2007 but allowed Ms. Ping to go out with the dog only if she were accompanied by a sighted person.
China enacted a law to permit guide dogs in public places in 2012, but its enforcement has been spotty. In 2013, Liu Hongquan, a blind singer who was scheduled to perform at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, was barred from entering the campus with his guide dog.
Liang Jia, who works at the Dalian China Guide Dog Training Center, said that acceptance of the dogs had grown in recent years. In addition to the 100 dogs now working around the country, the center is training 80 more, with 20 puppies expected to soon join them.
For now the center’s focus is on one alumna, Ms. Liang said. Qiaoqiao’s former trainers fear that she might be killed. At the very least, she will suffer from being separated from Mr. Tian.
She will definitely be anxious,” Ms. Liang said. “Guide dogs are different from ordinary dogs. They are with their owners almost 24-7, so they have a deeper attachment.






Is there a best day to get the lowest price on a flight?
Many travelers think the magic day is Tuesday, long lauded by travel deal sites and various publications, including this one, for its fare sales. Other travelers may have heard pundits declare Wednesday the ideal day. In December, Expedia and the Airlines Reporting Corporation, which processes ticket transactions for airlines and travel agencies, announced that weekends are the new best time.
But is there really a preferred day to buy?
I just want to drive a stake through the heart of that myth,” said George Hobica, the founder of the deal alert site Airfarewatchdog.com, who has been looking at airfares on popular routes every day for more than 20 years, with the rare exception of a vacation where he doesn’t have Internet access.
There are too many variables at play for there to be a universally ideal day to buy an airline ticket. Price depends on a variety of factors, including the route; the level of competition on the route; surrounding holidays and events (like a convention or the Super Bowl); and the days of the week you plan to fly. During a single week in March, for example, a recent search for a round-trip flight between New York and Miami turned up ticket prices as low as $174 and as high as $314. Besides, nowadays we have fare calendars at our fingertips and websites such as Kayak and Travelzoo that alert us to low fares and sales ― and those sales don’t always take place on the same day of the week.
Mr. Hobica pointed out, for instance, that on a recent Thursday, Virgin Atlantic lowered nonstop winter flights to Heathrow Airport in London from John F. Kennedy International Airport or Newark Liberty International Airport to about $504 round-trip. Economy fares had been running $900, Mr. Hobica said, then $800, then they went back up, and after that they dipped to around $680.
Airlines (and the above example is but one of many) are perpetually tweaking prices, making predictions difficult. Expedia said as much in its report. Even though its latest research asserts that weekends have the best fares, consumers who spot a good deal on Thursday shouldn’t wait until Saturday to buy it with the hope that the price will tumble even further. “If you find a fare that looks like a good deal, grab it,” the report said, “regardless of the day of week.
In addition to recommending the best times of the week to book, Expedia and other sites such as FareCompare publish suggestions about how far in advance of a trip to book to score the lowest fare. For instance, Expedia reported in December that the optimal time to buy an economy ticket for travel in North America is 57 days in advance, resulting in a potential savings of about 10 percent versus the average fare. Recommended lead times for travel to international destinations, including Europe and Asia-Pacific, were even longer.
Travelers shouldn’t think of predictions as rules, though. There are flights to Asia, for example, that are $500 cheaper when booked at the last minute as opposed to months in advance, Mr. Hobica said.
And talking about the “average fare” isn’t necessarily helpful because that doesn’t take into account the quality of a flight. Is it nonstop or does it have a 34-minute connection in a busy, sprawling airport like Atlanta? Is it an 18-hour layover in Dallas that will require you to spend an additional $300 in hotel bills and meals? Are you flying in an aisle seat in a Dreamliner or in the middle seat in a MD-80? And if that cheap ticket you found is on a discount airline like Spirit or Frontier, chances are you’ll have to budget another $30 to $100 to check a bag. In other words, you probably don’t want the average fare.
If you want to sit next to your companion, be a safe distance from the bathroom, put your bag in an overhead compartment instead of the belly of the plane, and have enough time to make a connection, what you really want are good fares that may not be the absolute cheapest, but give you the experience you want.
So how do you find these fares?
Almost every major airline (Delta, United, JetBlue) has a good flexible date search option on its website that you can use to see which travel dates will get you the lowest prices, along with the time and comforts you need.
To search multiple airlines at once, there’s Google Flights, which has simple calendars that allow users to easily see if they can save by flying a day or two earlier or later. The tool offers tips to that end. During a recent flight search for New York to Cancún, a message appeared saying that if I adjusted the travel dates by a few days, I could save $246. While the site has international and domestic flight information for nearly every airline, you won’t find Southwest there, so be sure to look at the airline’s own fare calendar on its website.
To keep abreast of private sales and low fares (as well as hotel deals), you can search or sign up for alerts on Airfarewatchdog.com. Email alerts include low fares for a particular route that interests you, or all of the affordable round-trip flights departing from your local airport.
Because prices are constantly fluctuating, keep checking airline websites and Google Flights to see the latest fares. The ticket price you see before lunch may be different a couple of hours later.
Even after you buy a ticket, you still have a chance to save. If you go to My.yapta.com/airline-refunds, you can sign up to receive free notifications if your ticket price drops. (TripIt Pro has a similar service though it’s part of an annual $49 membership.) With Yapta, if the price drop is greater than the cost of your airline’s change fee, you can call the airline and pocket the difference. If the price drops and you booked your ticket within 24-hours, you can simply cancel the ticket free of charge and rebook at the new, lower rate. And if the price on the ticket you purchased goes up? You have something even better: the satisfaction of knowing you nabbed a deal.



Organic meat and milk differ markedly from their conventionally produced counterparts in measures of certain nutrients, a review of scientific studies reported on Tuesday.
In particular, levels of omega-3 fatty acids, beneficial for lowering the risk of heart disease, were 50 percent higher in the organic versions.
50%。
“The fatty acid composition is definitely better,” said Carlo Leifert, a professor of ecological agriculture at Newcastle University in England and the leader of an international team of scientists who performed the review.
The European Commission, the executive body of the European Union, and the Sheepdrove Trust, a British charity that supports organic farming research, paid for the analysis, which cost about $600,000.
However, the question of whether these differences are likely to translate to better health in people who eat organic meat and drink organic milk is sharply disputed.
We don’t have that answer right now,” said Richard P. Bazinet, a professor of nutritional sciences at the University of Toronto who was not involved with the research. “Based on the composition, it looks like they should be better for us.
The two new scientific papers, published in The British Journal of Nutrition, are not the result of any new experiments, but instead employ a statistical technique called meta-analysis that attempts to pull robust conclusions out of many disparate studies.
They are certain to further stir a combative debate over whether organic foods are healthier. Some scientists assert that organic and conventional foods are nutritionally indistinguishable, and others find significant benefits to organic. Many people who buy organic food say they do so not for a nutritional advantage, but because of environmental concerns and to avoid pesticides.
The higher levels of omega-3, a type of polyunsaturated fat, arise not from the attributes usually associated with organic food ― that the animals are not given antibiotics, hormones or genetically modified feed ― but rather from a requirement that animals raised organically spend time outside. Organic milk and beef come from cattle that graze on grass, while most conventional milk and beef come from cows subsisting on grain.
It’s not something magical about organic,” said Charles M. Benbrook, an organic industry consultant who is an author of the studies. “It’s about what the animals are being fed.
Most of the same changes would be observed in conventionally raised animals that also grazed for the majority of their diet, the scientists said.“For once, this is a pretty simple story,” Dr. Benbrook said.
The review of comparisons of organic and conventional milk analyzed all 196 papers the scientists found. Because studies of meat are sparser, they could not look at just one type of meat like beef or pork. Instead, they did one analysis of the 67 papers they found for all types of meat. “Only if you throw them all in one pot can you do a meta-analysis,” Dr. Leifert said.
Two years ago, Dr. Leifert led a similar review for fruits and vegetables that found organic produce had higher levels of some antioxidants and less pesticide residue than conventionally grown crops.
Nutrition experts broadly agree that omega-3 fatty acids in food offer numerous health benefits. When the United States Department of Agriculture revised its dietary guidelines in 2010, it urged people to eat more seafood, which is rich in omega-3.
Omega-3 is much more prevalent in grass than in grain, which is why organic livestock and milk also contain higher levels. “Lo and behold, we altered in some fundamental ways the nutrient intake of these animals and hence the nutrient composition of the products that we derive from those animals,” Dr. Benbrook said.
The new analysis found that levels of another polyunsaturated fat, omega-6, were slightly lower in organic meat and dairy. Omega-3 and omega-6 are essential for the functioning of the human body, which can make neither. But some have argued that a skewing toward omega-6 has become unhealthy.
Centuries ago, people ate roughly equal amounts of the two fatty acids. Today, most Americans eat more than 10 times as much omega-6, which is prevalent in certain vegetable oils and thus also fried foods, as omega-3.
In an email, Dr. Walter C. Willett, the chairman of the nutrition department at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, said the differences between organic and conventional beef were trivial, and the amount of saturated fat in both were high.
Far greater, and beneficial, differences in fatty acids are seen if poultry and fish replace red meat,” Dr. Willett said.
A shortcoming of the recommendation to eat more fish is that if everyone followed it, the rivers, oceans and lakes would be emptied of fish. Dr. Bazinet of the University of Toronto said perhaps encouraging people to switch to organic meats and milk would be “a way to kind of get at them with the foods they’re already eating.
Dr. Bazinet said observational studies suggested that adding 200 milligrams a day of omega-3s to an average diet should yield health benefits. Switching to organic beef would add about 50 milligrams. “Eating one grass-fed beef serving per day is not going to do it,” he said.
But if combined with a couple of glasses of organic milk, “it should make a difference,” Dr. Bazinet said. “That would be the hypothesis.
Scientists are now trying to examine the health question more directly.
Dr. Leifert cited several studies that indicated that infants of mothers who ate organic fruits and vegetables were less likely to contract some diseases. He is also conducting experiments to see if rats fed organic foods are healthier. So far, he said, it appears that crop pesticide residue does have measurable effects on the rats’ hormones.
We still don’t know whether it kills you, but we do know it has an effect on hormonal balances,” he said. “It’s something that makes you think a little bit.



When the Oscar nominations were announced last month, revealing that not one black actor was in the running, the resulting furor touched on the performances that critics said should have been considered: What about Idris Elba in “Beasts of No Nation”? Michael B. Jordan in “Creed”? Will Smith in “Concussion,” or one of the stars of “Straight Outta Compton”?
The uproar over #OscarsSoWhite made me curious. What does the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences value in black performance? Black artists have been nominated for best actress or actor on 30 occasions, for work spanning 28 films. Over the last few weeks, I watched all of them.
These are movies with a lot in common, not least that most were written and directed by white men. Only three were written and directed by black men. None were directed by women. Perhaps these numbers aren’t surprising, given the well-known demographics of the film industry. Other numbers are more eye-opening.
Consider: In the history of the Oscars, 10 black women have been nominated for best actress, and nine of them played characters who are homeless or might soon become so. (The exception is Viola Davis, for the 2011 drama “The Help.
The first was Dorothy Dandridge, for “Carmen Jones” (1954). That musical drama, like the opera from which it derives, is mostly known as the story of a sexually rapacious young woman and her obsessive, ultimately murderous lover. But it’s also the story of a wily, prideful human running out of places to go. Late in the film, Carmen and her fugitive boyfriend hide out in a seedy Chicago apartment. There’s no money for rent, and soon they’ll be evicted. Carmen, who’s spent the movie working hard to seem carefree and fierce, tries her best to summon that look again as she sets out to scare up food and rent money.
Nearly every black best-actress nominee has faced a similar plight, right up through “Beasts of the Southern Wild” (2012), in which Quvenzhané Wallis played a little girl about to lose her home to a flood. No black woman has ever received a best-actress nomination for portraying an executive or even a character with a college degree. (Though Gabourey Sidibe’s character in “Precious,” from 2009, seems likely to get one eventually.
All 10 performances for which black women have received best-actress nominations involve poor or lower-income characters, and half of those are penniless mothers. Two of the portrayals ― Diana Ross’s incarnation of Billie Holiday in “Lady Sings the Blues” (1972) and Angela Bassett’s depiction of Tina Turner in “What’s Love Got to Do With It” (1993) ― are of singers who enjoy a measure of wealth at some point. But Holiday begins broke, and viewers know she’ll end up that way, while Tina Turner doesn’t have money of her own until the film’s last five minutes. The remaining characters are maids, sharecroppers, criminal-drifter types, impoverished housewives and destitute girls.
A few more commonalities to note: Seven of the 10 best-actress nominees played characters with absent or incarcerated husbands, boyfriends, or fathers. And six of the characters suffer physical abuse, with five of them being raped.
The academy has tended to honor black men for different sorts of roles, and it has honored them more often. Black men have been up for best actor 20 times, with four nominations going to Denzel Washington, three to Morgan Freeman, and two each to Sidney Poitier and Mr. Smith.
Thirteen of the recognized performances involve being arrested or incarcerated. Picture Chiwetel Ejiofor as the newly kidnapped Solomon Northup in “12 Years a Slave” or Mr. Washington behind bars as Malcolm Little, soon to change his name to Malcolm X. (His other nominated characters all face arrest, even his corrupt detective Alonzo Harris, before he flees in the last few minutes of “Training Day.”) Picture the police bursting through the bedroom doors of Jamie Foxx’s Ray Charles in “Ray” (2004) or James Earl Jones’s Jack Jefferson in “The Great White Hope” (1970). Most of the films deliver these men into bondage with the best of intentions ― so we may identify with them, and hate the injustices done them. Nevertheless, the images seem endlessly ― and sadistically ― repeated.
In 15 of the 20 films, the nominated performances involve violent or criminal behavior. It’s often justified or victimless ― or, as with the boxers in “Ali” (2001), “The Hurricane” (1999) and “The Great White Hope,” part of a day at the office. These characters tend to end up in jail anyway. (When the crime is not victimless, as in “Training Day” or “What’s Love Got to Do With It,” the perpetrators often never see the inside of a jail cell.
Ten of the characters have a white buddy or counterpart ― or, when it comes to “Lilies of the Field” (1963), a whole convent full of them. In most cases, the white counterpart is the apparent protagonist. Think of Tim Robbins in “The Shawshank Redemption” (1994), Jessica Tandy in “Driving Miss Daisy” (1989) or Ethan Hawke in “Training Day.
Ethan Hawke)。
Seven of the actors’ films feature no major black female characters. Seven of the characters abuse or mistreat women.
I shared these numbers with Dr. Todd Boyd, the author and professor of critical studies at the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts. He wasn’t impressed, but he also said the focus on the Oscars was misplaced. “The Oscars are a symptom,” he said, and not the illness itself.
The academy president, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, in announcing changes intended to address #OscarsSoWhite, cited the film industry’s failure to produce movies with diverse casts, and Dr. Boyd made a similar point: “You have to backtrack and look at the kinds of movies that African-Americans have been cast in.
These 28 films are full of enormous characters, men and women of world-historic or pop-cultural significance, people who face seemingly intolerable oppression with nigh-unimaginable resolve, characters who are victimized or who encounter and occasionally inflict cruelty.
What they’re not full of is characters who resemble ordinary people. And when such people do make an appearance, the camera tends to linger on the parts of their lives most likely to interest white Americans struggling to reckon with their country’s racist past. We learn all about Miss Daisy ― her son, her childhood, her politics. But we hear only a sentence or two about the family of her driver (Morgan Freeman). Similarly, there’s a lot of information about Billy Bob Thornton’s Hank in “Monster’s Ball.” But watching Halle Berry as the bereft Leticia Musgrove, we see only her wretchedness, and her eventual rescue by a white man.
These are largely isolated characters, said Dr. Miriam J. Petty, an assistant professor in the department of radio, television and film at Northwestern University. “And they’re bound to the destinies of the white people with whom they appear in these films.
It is not entirely surprising that so many of these nominees have portrayed the poor, imprisoned, great or tragic. The history of African-Americans contains many such people, and the academy loves history. Of the 10 most recent best-actor nominees, eight played historical figures. But the academy has never nominated a black leading actor for a role like Woody Grant in “Nebraska” (for which Bruce Dern was nominated in 2014) ― an idiosyncratic person who is both fictional and unexceptional.
If you had a film about an ordinary black guy ― well, that might mean that he knows other black people,” Dr. Petty said. “Those black people might need to be in the movie, too. And then it’s a black film.



BEIJING ― The first red alert over air pollution in the Chinese capital almost brought this city to a standstill in December, with schools shut, construction halted and driving restricted. Now, in a swift policy shift, Beijing plans to issue a red alert based on higher thresholds, despite government pledges to better address the toxic air.
A red alert, the highest level of a four-tier warning system, will be issued if the daily average air quality index is forecast to exceed 500 for one day, 300 for two days or 200 for four days, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported on Sunday, quoting Beijing’s environmental agency. The new standards will take effect before the end of March, it said.
The air quality index, used in many countries, is an aggregate measure of various pollutants in the air. Currently, any reading above 200 for more than three days in Beijing will prompt a red alert, which activates numerous contingency plans that can disrupt jobs and businesses.
The red alert issued in December came as a surprise to many because air pollution in the city had routinely been worse. A number of times during the winter over the past three years, the air quality index exceeded 500, a level deemed hazardous to human health. Those “off-the-charts” episodes did not activate red alerts, even though the state news media instructed people to reduce their outdoor activities.
The new standards will also be applied to neighboring provinces that have suffered from severe air pollution, Xinhua reported.
Ma Jun, a prominent environmental researcher in Beijing, said the change highlighted officials’ worries about the social disruption a red alert could cause. With the new standards, he said, officials must reassess some of the contingency measures that come with the warning.
There will be multiple times of red alerts in a year if we continue using the current standards, which will bring about a high social and economic cost,” Mr. Ma said, alluding to the contingency measures. They include the closing of factories and schools and strict limits on the use of cars.
Among the issues at stake is children’s health, he said, arguing for the need to re-evaluate the emergency measures after the imposition of the new standards. The Xinhua report said the response measures would remain the same, but each city affected would be able to decide if primary and middle schools should be temporarily closed.
Mr. Ma argued that schools should continue to be closed even if Beijing declared a lower warning.
Next week, the Chinese Communist Party will convene its Parliament, where air pollution is expected to be a major topic.
The Chinese news media reported over the weekend that Beijing was considering a plan to build five ventilation corridors to improve urban air circulation. The corridors, each at least 1,500 feet wide, would run though the city, passing through parks, inner-city lakes and public spaces. Also being planned, the reports said, are an unspecified number of narrower corridors. It is not clear how much the project would cost or when it would be finished.
The main role of ventilation corridors is to reduce the blockage of wind by the city to facilitate a heat exchange between the city and its peripheries and the spread of pollutants,” Wang Fei, vice director of the Beijing Municipal Commission of Urban Planning, was quoted by Xinhua as saying.
Thus, the urban heat island effect and pollution can be reduced,” Mr. Wang said, using a term for warmth in urban areas caused by human activity.
The announcement followed the publishing last week of an opinion piece on the website of the government-controlled China Science Daily. It said the root cause of the smog in Beijing was declining wind power, which it said was the result of an increased planting of trees where none had been before, lower atmospheric pressure and desertification in Inner Mongolia, a province north of Beijing.
We couldn’t help asking, did we plant the trees in the wrong place?” the article said. It also attacked the widely held view that smog comes from automobile exhaust, coal burning and industrial emissions, labeling such beliefs “ridiculous.
Liu Shuhua, a professor of atmospheric sciences at Peking University, expressed doubts about the ventilation corridors.
The weak vertical atmospheric circulation means ventilation corridors will have a very limited role to play,” he said. “They will only improve ground ventilation.
More studies need to be undertaken to back up Beijing’s plan to build ventilation corridors, and many details are still lacking, said Edward Ng, a professor at the School of Architecture of the Chinese University of Hong Kong who helped design ventilation corridors in Hong Kong.
Beijing has very low ground wind,” he said, meaning that the corridors would not be effective to disperse smog. He said that reducing industrial emissions remained crucial to tackling the issue.
But, he said, many Chinese cities are hoping to join Beijing in the development of such tools. He said he would be in Xi’an, the capital of the northeastern province of Shaanxi, this week to discuss a plan to build ventilation corridors with officials there.



HONG KONG ― A vehicle license plate in Hong Kong sold at auction for 18.1 million Hong Kong dollars on Sunday, or $2.3 million, the highest price ever paid in the city. The plate carries the number 28, which in Cantonese sounds similar to a phrase for “easy money.
The new owner of the plate was not immediately clear. The bidder, who also snatched the license plate 232 for $174,000, said he was representing another party, whom he did not name, according to Oriental Daily News, a Hong Kong newspaper.
The city introduced bidding for coveted license plate numbers in 1973, with the money going to charity. The most desired plates, which include the numbers 2 through 10 (1 is reserved for the police commissioner) and combinations of auspicious digits, are owned by some of the city’s richest and most prominent people.
In 1994, the jewelry, property and entertainment tycoon Albert Yeung bought 9 for what was then a record of $1.6 million. The most recent peak license price was $2.1 million for 18, in 2008.
Ten years ago, Hong Kong began to allow a wide array of vanity plates using letters of the alphabet, which triggered a rush of vehicular declarations like MCDADDY, XBATMANX and WHATEVER.
Will 28 bring easy money? The answer is as uncertain as the identity of its new owner. But a 2009 study by Travis Ng, Terence Chong and Xin Du at the Chinese University of Hong Kong found that for three-digit license plates, including a lucky number such as 8 brought a price premium of 95 percent. The premium got bigger the worse the stock market did, jumping 11 percent for each 1 percent decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.
11%。
Likewise, unlucky numbers brought down the price. The presence of a number 4, which is a homonym for “death,” brings down the value of a four-digit plate 27 percent, and the price drops further with each fall in the Hang Seng.



BEIJING ― China is home to at least 10 White Houses, three Arcs de Triomphe and one Eiffel Tower. But 2016 might signal the end for China’s more grandiose architecture.
A directive issued on Sunday by the State Council, China’s cabinet, and the Communist Party’s Central Committee says no to architecture that is “oversized, xenocentric, weird” and devoid of cultural tradition. Instead, buildings should be “suitable, economic, green and pleasing to the eye.
The directive also calls for an end to gated communities.
The guidelines come two months after a high-level meeting to address some of the problems that have arisen as a result of China’s rapid urbanization. The last such meeting was in 1978, when only 18 percent of China’s population lived in towns or cities. Now, more than 56 percent of the country’s 1.3 billion people are urbanites.
The directive also follows President Xi Jinping’s criticism in late 2014 of “weird architecture.
Experts say that as a result of the new guidelines from top leaders, they expect stricter design standards for public buildings. Wang Kai, vice president of the China Academy of Urban Planning and Design, under the Ministry of Construction, said that functionality should take precedence in public buildings. “We shouldn’t go overboard in pursuit of appearances,” he said.
On Oct. 15, 2014, at a major symposium on culture, Mr. Xi urged that there be “no more weird architecture.” A social media platform under People’s Daily, the Communist Party newspaper, predicted that “in the future it is unlikely that Beijing will have other strangely shaped buildings like the ‘Giant Trousers’ ” ― a reference to the China Central Television Headquarters, a hulking, long-limbed edifice designed by Rem Koolhaas and Ole Scheeren.
Ole Scheeren)。
Feng Guochuan, an architect from Shenzhen, said that Mr. Xi’s admonishment had already influenced local governments’ decisions regarding new projects. “Generally speaking, local governments now tend to approve more conservative designs,” he said.
In an interview with Dezeen magazine, Patrik Schumacher, director of Zaha Hadid Architects, said that foreign architects were finding it more difficult to get work in China. Zaha Hadid Architects has designed some of Beijing’s more futuristic residential and office buildings.
I feel that there is this attempt by the Chinese leadership to try to make itself more independent and rely on its own talent,” Mr. Schumacher told Dezeen.
Mr. Feng said he was concerned that Mr. Xi was interfering in an area that should be left to urban planning departments.
But Mr. Wang said that the stricter standards applied primarily to public projects. “For private housing or commercial projects,” he said, “there is still space for innovation.
However, the same directive also says there are to be no more gated residential communities. Those already in place will be gradually opened to the public, with their roads opened to traffic with one goal being to ease congestion.



Yesterday was my first time taking Megabus, a discount intercity bus service that began in 2006 and quickly gained notoriety for advertising fares as low as $1 each way. Yesterday was also the first time I had to evacuate a bus as it was catching fire.
I was just closing my eyes when we pulled over to the side of the interstate 50 minutes into the trip from Chicago to Milwaukee. I hadn’t noticed that there was a problem, but others, like a fellow passenger, Lauren Wurdinger, said they smelled the burning coming from the bus almost immediately. The driver got out, re-entered the bus a few minutes later, and we drove on. Minutes later, we stopped again and the driver exited again; we eventually continued. Finally, he announced on the intercom that we were turning around because we had to “switch buses.”
A groan of incredulity swept through the bus. I started tweeting updates. Why would we turn around, people asked, when we were so close to Milwaukee? (It’s about a 90-mile trip.) We turned off the interstate and began heading back toward Chicago down a smaller highway. Within minutes, there was a loud bang from the back of the bus. People leapt up from their seats. Some were cursing, some got on their phones.
We pulled over and the driver got on the intercom: It’s just a flat tire, he said, and there’s no need to panic and no need to curse. He exited the bus and we all sat there for a few minutes, dumbfounded. One passenger, Kenny Wagner, said nothing like this had happened in the dozens of times he’d taken Megabus. The bus began to smoke, and as it got thicker, we evacuated.
Outside, the driver was fishing out baggage. There was a small fire coming out from one of the wheels on the other side. The fire grew quickly and, within minutes, had spread throughout the back of the bus. People got away as quickly as they could, abandoning their bags. The driver remained, trying to put out the flames with a small fire extinguisher.
Suddenly, there was a series of pops followed by several loud booms, and flames completely consumed the back half of the bus. Alexei O’Brien, a student at the University of St. Thomas, was despondent, yelling to someone on the phone, “I lost all my schoolwork and textbooks. What am I supposed to do?”
Many people, I learned, lost a considerable amount of personal property. Some, like Ms. Wurdinger, felt lucky that they’d lost only clothes. “I have my laptop here with me, thank God,” she said. Others, like Darnell McKinney, lost considerably more. “I was moving from St. Louis to Milwaukee,” Mr. McKinney said. “I had my whole life under that bus: iPad, iPhone, clothes, leather jacket, Social Security card, birth certificates. I ain’t got a pair of socks now, man; I ain’t got a pair of drawers.”
This isn’t the worst fate to befall Megabus passengers. It has had, in its relatively brief existence, several high-profile accidents. In 2010, a double-decker Megabus crashed into a railroad overpass in upstate New York, killing four on the top deck. In 2014, 26 passengers were hurt when a Megabus rolled over near Seymour, Ind. And in 2015, 19 were injured when a Megabus traveling from Chicago to Atlanta crashed.
I had chosen Megabus for the same reason most choose it: the price. While I didn’t snag a $1 fare, I paid $11, plus a booking fee, for a ticket from Chicago to Milwaukee. An Amtrak ticket would have cost $25: not a bad savings. Unfortunately, though, low prices sometimes come with other costs.
We were eventually picked up by another double-decker Megabus and continued our journey to Milwaukee. It seemed slightly cruel ― and ironic ― to be picked up by the same manner of transport that had just burst into flames, but there was no other option presented. On the way, there was a discussion about responsibility. “This was not the driver’s fault,” Russicha Watkins said emphatically. “He was doing his best and trying to help us and save our luggage. Another passenger, Michelle Grant, said, “They never should have made him turn around and go back to Chicago. They knew something was wrong with that bus. That was stupid.”
Another hotly discussed topic among the passengers was that of reimbursement. Several people called up Megabus’s terms and conditions on their phones. It unfortunately states: “Our maximum liability to you for any loss or damage to your luggage is US $250 per passenger for any such loss or damage to luggage, and megabus.com will only be responsible to reimburse passengers up to the maximum liability limit in the event of negligence on the part of megabus.com.” That information caused quite a bit of distress. “I’m just devastated,” said Alice Taylor, who estimated she lost $1,700 worth of belongings in the fire, including a laptop.
Deandre Bea said this was the second time he’d had luggage lost or destroyed on a Megabus. The first time, he said, he got frustrated trying to get compensation and eventually gave up. That was a reality check for me. I may choose Megabus to save a few bucks but many of my fellow passengers ride Megabus because it’s all that they can afford. And many lack the legal or financial resources to pursue the company for fair compensation for lost items.
So my takeaway is this: While you shouldn’t expect your bus to become a ball of flames, it is, sadly, necessary to be prepared. Carry irreplaceable things with you, if possible. Some credit cards, like American Express, offer baggage insurance if you purchase the ticket with the card. Most important, be safe. No belonging is worth injury or death. We were lucky that no one was hurt on our bus; this is largely because everyone was wise enough to abandon their belongings when things got dangerous.



Suzanne Barakat, the sister of a Muslim student killed alongside his wife and sister-in-law last year in an attack in North Carolina, challenged Donald J. Trump to meet with her after a speech in which he spoke approvingly of killing Islamic terrorists with bullets dipped in the blood of pigs.
Dr. Barakat, 28, a physician in San Francisco, said the comments and other anti-Muslim rhetoric from Mr. Trump, including a proposal to ban Muslims from entering the country, have contributed to an atmosphere of intolerance that she fears could have deadly consequences.
It allows for the Average Joe to see Muslims the way Craig Hicks saw my brother and his wife of six weeks and her sister,” she said, referring to the man who killed her relatives last February. “As ‘The Other,’ as subhuman, because of their faith.
Mr. Trump has not responded to Dr. Barakat’s invitation for a face-to-face meeting, she said. It was delivered on Saturday via Twitter, a platform the Republican presidential candidate has frequently used to telegraph his views and to attack people, places and things that he dislikes.
Trump speaks as if he is the authority on American Muslims,” said Dr. Barakat. “Well, if you mean it then call me up and meet with me and let’s have a chat.
Mr. Trump made his remarks about blood-dipped bullets at a rally on Friday in South Carolina, before winning the state’s Republican primary the next day.
They came during a speech in which he repeated a questionable story told about Gen. John J. Pershing, an American Army leader of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. General Pershing, Mr. Trump said, used bullets dipped in pigs’ blood to summarily execute dozens of Muslim prisoners in the Philippines, shortly after the Spanish-American War.
The story, which has circulated online for years, has been dismissed as unsupported by historical documentation or evidence by websites that fact-check Internet rumors. Mr. Trump used it to illustrate his call to push back with brutal force against both Islamic terrorism and political correctness.
This is something you can read in the history books,” Mr. Trump told his supporters, adding, “Not a lot of history books, because they don’t like teaching it.
According to Mr. Trump’s telling, Gen. Pershing brought an end to terrorism after he captured 50 terrorists and executed 49 of them with blood-soaked bullets. The general told the sole survivor, “ ‘You go back to your people and you tell them what happened,’ ” Mr. Trump said.
Gen. Pershing used pigs’ blood, Mr. Trump said, because Muslims have “a whole thing with swine and animals and pigs, and you know the story ― they don’t like them.
The moral, Mr. Trump said, is, “We better start getting tough, and we better start getting vigilant and using our heads, or we’re not going to have a country, folks.
Muslim-American groups reacted with horror to the remarks. Nihad Awad, the Executive Director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations said in a statement that Mr. Trump had “crossed the line from spreading hatred to inciting violence” in ways that placed Muslim-Americans “at risk from rogue vigilantes.
A little more than a year ago, Dr. Barakat’s brother Deah, 23, was shot and killed at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., alongside his wife, Yusor Abu-Salha, 21, and her sister, Razan Abu-Salha, 19. A neighbor, Craig Stephen Hicks, 46, turned himself in to police later that day.



The newest street-style fashion star has been photographed dining at Balthazar and Nobu, shopping at Barneys, vacationing in Marrakesh and the Napa Valley and going to the ballet in London. She favors Chloé, Marc Jacobs and Zara, and seems to have an occasional fondness for the color pink.
Her name is Harper Seven Beckham, and if you didn’t already know, she is the daughter and youngest child of Victoria and David Beckham.
She was at her mother’s fashion show on a frigid Sunday morning in New York this week, sitting in the front row with her father, the retired soccer star, and her three brothers, Cruz, 10; Romeo, 13; and Brooklyn, 16 ― the latter two also budding fashionistas. (Romeo has starred in a Burberry ad campaign shot by Mario Testino, and Brooklyn is a sometime model and aspiring fashion photographer.
Harper was clad in a black bespoke Burberry winter coat that had been chosen for her by the Burberry creative director Christopher Bailey and a pair of black patent leather loafers by Gucci, her hair styled into two glossy braids. As the British newspaper The Sun put it in its report about Ms. Beckham’s New York Fashion Week show: “Harper Beckham steals show.
Much like kindergarten contemporaries North West and Prince George, whose celebrity parents also command a global cult following, Harper has garnered a multimillion-strong army of admiring fans on Instagram and other social media platforms thanks to her impeccable outfits.
She has been featured on the websites of British Vogue and Elle UK and is the subject of a full-time blog devoted to chronicling her every look, titled simply enough, “Harper Beckham.
Goodness, a full-time blog just on her, does she really?” said her mother, Victoria Beckham, who was interviewed backstage after the show, with her family and well-wishers milling around. “That’s quite amazing. I had no idea. And perhaps a little odd.
Ms. Beckham added: “I suppose it says a lot about the world we are living in today. And yet it doesn’t surprise me. Harper is incredibly chic ― especially this morning in that coat from Christopher, and wears some incredibly sweet things. She’s a very stylish little thing with her own sense of how she wants to dress. She tends to choose exactly what she wears herself.
There seems to be a booming trend for designer children’s wear (some of Harper’s outfits come from labels like Little Marc Jacobs and Stella McCartney Kids), making the wearers look more like mini-versions of their parents rather than rapidly developing toddlers and adolescents who will soon outgrow those expensive designer duds.
The premium brands that regularly feature in the wardrobes of pint-size A-list offspring, and the retailers that sell them, are reaping the rewards. Net-a-Porter has registered the domain name Petite-a-Porter, and Harrods of London recently expanded its children’s wear department to 66,000 square feet. When a figure like Harper is spotted wearing one outfit, brands say, sales can skyrocket and pieces sell out only hours after a photograph appears online.
Our loyal customers are always interested in seeing who is wearing our clothes, and we do find that the clothes worn by Harper sell very quickly,” said Princess Marie-Chantal of Greece, creative director of the luxury children’s label Marie-Chantal in London. Pink velvet party dresses from the brand sell for around $280, while a pillar-box red coat with a bow collar costs $395.
Victoria has been a great supporter over the years, and Harper has been wearing Marie-Chantal since she was a baby,” the princess said. “We are so happy that Harper still loves wearing our clothes even as she gets older.” (The Harper Beckham blog lists 31 times that Harper has been photographed in Marie-Chantal.
Eleanor Robinson, head of accessories and children’s wear at Selfridges, said last week that best-selling designer items in recent seasons for the upmarket British department store have included a Burberry trench worn by Romeo Beckham, Pink Dr. Martens and Charlotte Olympia kitty flats seen on North West; and items by Chloé, Bonpoint and Little Marc Jacobs that Harper has been spotted wearing.
Here in the United Kingdom especially, there is this very British sense of pride with celebrities and their children, and in particular with the Beckhams and Princess Catherine and Prince William,” Ms. Robinson said. “These are family role models who dress their children beautifully, and consumers aspire to replicate this personal sense of style that also reinforces positive family ideals. Children’s wear has become an increasingly important part of our fashion business.
The person who runs the Harper Beckham fashion site, Anastasia Medvedeva, is a blogger based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She said the site got about 3,000 hits a day and was an “unremarkable” moneymaker, deriving its income from a few Google ads. “I first started eight years ago with a fashion blog about Suri Cruise because I loved her style when she was little, and have been a lifelong fan of Victoria Beckham, so a focus on Harper was a natural progression,” she wrote in an email. “Harper is very popular because of who her parents are and their personal style.
Despite the haute fashion pieces Harper sported supporting her mother at the Sunday show, another apparent factor behind her breakout street-style star status is the quota of items she wears that are affordable for the general public, Ms. Medvedeva wrote, making copying her looks more accessible for many parents.
Though the Bonpoint and Chloé dresses frequently worn by Harper can range from $100 to $250, Ms. Medvedeva wrote, she can often be seen in emerging brands like Billieblush, Gardner and the Gang, and Courage & Kind, which are relatively more affordable.
How aware Harper is of her style supernova status remains to be seen. She will return to school next week in London after her half-term break. But her mother said she doubted the attention would deter Harper from continuing to wear her consistently favorite item.
More than anything,” Ms. Beckham said, “she loves her football jersey.



Three times in “Mountains May Depart,” the latest from the transformative Chinese director Jia Zhangke, people stand near a river that weaves through the landscape like a snake. In the first instance, three friends light fireworks that send out modest sparks. In the second, only two return to the river, where they ignite a bundle of dynamite. By the third trip, only one of the original three remains, everyone’s life having changed as profoundly as China, a cataclysm that’s expressed by a series of rapid explosions in the river, suggesting a drowning world.
Few filmmakers working today look as deeply at the changing world as Mr. Jia does, or make the human stakes as vivid. The three sending out those sparks are Tao (Zhao Tao), and her two close male friends, Zhang Jinsheng (Zhang Yi) and Liangzi (Liang Jin Dong). An affable, easygoing drifter with an expansive smile, Tao works in a small store in the city of Fenyang (Mr. Jia’s birthplace). Mr. Jia likes a slow reveal and it isn’t initially obvious that Tao is the movie’s emotional organizing principle whose feelings run, surge and erupt. The story tracks Tao and her relations with both Liangzi, who works at a coal mine, and Jinsheng, a budding entrepreneur.
Eventually, Tao chooses one man over the other, a decision that fractures the trio and sends the narrative spiraling in different directions. Mr. Jia’s approach means that you have to do a certain amount of interpretive work, though mostly you just have to pay attention and be a little patient. If you do, you will notice that “Mountains May Depart” is a movie of threes: its main characters, moments in time, narrative sections, historical symbols and even aspect ratio come in triplicate. This schematic quality isn’t necessarily obvious on first viewing, even though the story’s time frames ― 1999, 2014 and 2025 ― are announced on-screen and accompanied by a corresponding increase in the size of the image, an enlargement that mirrors the character’s expanding universe.
When the movie opens in 1999, for instance, Tao is right in middle of the action (and the frame), dancing with a large group to the Pet Shop Boys’ dementedly catchy 1993 cover of “Go West,” an old Village People tune. The original music video for the Pet Shop Boys’ version, an exuberantly surreal pageant, includes shots of Red Square and Vladimir Lenin. Mr. Jia doesn’t reference the video, but it’s likely he used the cover partly because of its post-Soviet bloc resonance. Whatever the case, it’s a lovely, festive scene that suggests that everyone is in a party (or Party) mood. When Tao and the others form a conga line it seems as if they have decided to take the song literally.
Mr. Jia never over-explains his work. The dance feels triumphant, at once choreographed and spontaneous, but there’s no immediate reason for it, even when the date 1999 appears on-screen. It isn’t until the next scene, when Tao is trading New Year’s greetings, that the dance feels tethered to a rationale. By that point, though, you will have had time to think about the dance, to turn it around in your head, consider its possibilities and wonder whether the revelers are spontaneously dancing or celebrating the end of the millennium or the 50th anniversary of the People’s Republic. Or perhaps the scene has more to do with Tao, a woman who smiles and who dances.
Ambiguity is a defining characteristic of the European art cinema; at its most clichéd, directorial solipsism is mistaken for mystery and empty images are turned into endlessly masticated cud for cultists. Although Mr. Jia is obviously conversant with the European art film ― and East Asian cinema and Hollywood and so forth ― he has carved out his own ways of making cinematic meaning, an approach that draws on different idioms and traditions. He occasionally folds an image into the mix that can feel enigmatic, but that over time make sense when considered in the context of the movie as a whole. A shot of an old-fashioned pagoda may not make ready sense, may even look like picture-postcard scenery, yet by the end of the movie it may make you weep.
Mr. Jia has characterized “Mountains May Depart” as his most emotional movie, which may underplay how deeply moving his work can be. While he invariably addresses larger cultural, social and political issues, sometimes openly, at other times obliquely, what makes his work memorable is how those larger forces are etched in the faces and bodies of his characters, in the coal dust that defines one man’s reality ― and, by extension, one China ― and the hard mask that defines another truth, another China. Here, when Tao first walks down a street flanked by modest brick buildings, she is moving through a country that is rapidly being lost to what’s optimistically called development. By the end, she is living in a new world even if, Mr. Jia suggests, her soul remains in the old.
Mountains May Depart” is unrated and is in Cantonese, Mandarin and English. Running time: 2 hours, 11 minutes.



WASHINGTON ― As a legal matter, the showdown between the Obama administration and Apple touched off Tuesday by the ruling of a federal magistrate judge in California turns on an 18th century law. More practically, though, it boils down to this question: Should you be able to lock your phone so securely that even the F.B.I. cannot open it?
The Obama administration and police officers around the country say no, and their precedent is the past. Homes and cars do not have unbreakable locks. You cannot buy an uncrackable safe. And terrorists and child molesters should not be able to buy a hand-held computer that keeps its secrets forever.
Apple, backed by technologists and civil libertarians, says yes. People live their lives electronically; their phones are a record of loves and fantasies, illnesses and losses. Apple built its recent iPhones to keep that data private and says nothing less than the future of privacy is at stake in this fight.
The Justice Department’s success in obtaining a court order demanding that Apple help write software to disable those defenses was a significant victory for the Obama administration. It relied on the All Writs Act, a law that can trace its origins to the first Congress in 1789. In short, it says courts can require that people do things to comply with their orders.
For months, the Justice Department and Apple have been trading heated rhetoric and lurching toward this very confrontation, only to back away. By the end of last year, it seemed that Apple and other technology companies had won the public relations battle.
The attacks in San Bernardino, Calif., in December, however, changed the government’s calculation. Syed Rizwan Farook, one of the two people suspected of killing 14 people, left behind an iPhone 5c ― a locked one. The F.B.I. has not been able to get access to any data on it.
For the administration, it was perhaps the perfect test case, one that put Apple on the side of keeping secrets for a terrorist.
Mr. Farook’s phone is protected by a password that Apple says it does not keep. It is encrypted with an algorithm the company says it cannot break. The F.B.I. wants to write a computer program to send the phone an unlimited combination of passwords until it finds one that works.
But Apple built its phones to protect against that tactic. Each wrong guess causes a short delay, which would significantly slow the F.B.I.’s effort. After too many incorrect guesses, the phone will automatically erase its memory.
There is little middle ground between the positions of the Justice Department and Apple, and Timothy D. Cook, the company’s chief executive, did not back down. He issued a sharply worded statement on Wednesday, saying he planned to fight the order. He said the Obama administration was not only creating a dangerous precedent but was demanding the creation of a dangerous tool ― a skeleton key that could be used by hackers and totalitarian governments.
Once the information is known, or a way to bypass the code is revealed, the encryption can be defeated by anyone with that knowledge,” Mr. Cook said. “The government suggests this tool could only be used once, on one phone. But that’s simply not true. Once created, the technique could be used over and over again, on any number of devices.



The global public health emergency involving deformed babies emerged in 2015, the hottest year in the historical record, with an outbreak in Brazil of a disease transmitted by heat-loving mosquitoes. Can that be a coincidence?
Scientists say it will take them years to figure that out, and pointed to other factors that may have played a larger role in starting the crisis. But these same experts added that the Zika epidemic, as well as the related spread of a disease called dengue that is sickening as many as 100 million people a year and killing thousands, should be interpreted as warnings.
Over the coming decades, global warming is likely to increase the range and speed the life cycle of the particular mosquitoes carrying these viruses, encouraging their spread deeper into temperate countries like the United States.
Recent research suggests that under a worst-case scenario, involving continued high global emissions coupled with fast population growth, the number of people exposed to the principal mosquito could more than double, to as many as 8 billion or 9 billion by late this century from roughly 4 billion today.
As we get continued warming, it’s going to become more difficult to control mosquitoes,” said Andrew Monaghan, who is studying the interaction of climate and health at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo. “The warmer it is, the faster they can develop from egg to adult, and the faster they can incubate viruses.
Already, climate change is suspected ― though not proven ― to have been a factor in a string of disease outbreaks afflicting both people and animals. These include the spread of malaria into the highlands of eastern Africa, the rising incidence of Lyme disease in North America, and the spread of a serious livestock ailment called bluetongue into parts of Europe that were once too cold for it to thrive.
In interviews, experts noted that no epidemic was ever the result of a single variable.
Instead, epidemics always involve interactions among genes, ecology, climate and human behavior, presenting profound difficulties for scientists trying to tease apart the contributing factors. “The complexity is enormous,” said Walter J. Tabachnick, a professor with the Florida Medical Entomology Laboratory, a unit of the University of Florida in Vero Beach.
The epidemics of Zika and dengue are cases in point. The viruses are being transmitted largely by the yellow fever mosquito, Aedes aegypti. That creature adapted long ago to live in human settlements, and developed a concomitant taste for human blood.
Cities in the tropics, the climate zone most favorable to the mosquito, have undergone explosive growth: Humanity passed a milestone a few years ago when more than half the population had moved to urban areas. But spending on health care and on basic public health infrastructure, like water pipes and sewers, has not kept pace. Mosquito control has also faltered in recent decades.
The mosquito lays its eggs in containers of water, of a sort that are especially common in the huge slums of Latin American cities. With unreliable access to piped water, people there store water in rooftop cisterns, buckets and the like. Old tires and other debris can also become mosquito habitat.
Water storage near homes is commonplace in areas where Zika has spread rapidly, like the cities of Recife and Salvador in northeastern Brazil, and where dengue experienced a surge in 2015, like São Paulo, Brazil’s largest state.
Altogether, dengue killed at least 839 people in Brazil in 2015, a 40 percent increase from the previous year. Worldwide, dengue is killing more than 20,000 people a year.
Several experts said in interviews that a main reason for the disease outbreaks was most likely the expansion of the number of people at risk, through urbanization, population growth and international travel. They see the changing climate as just another stress on top of a situation that was already rife with peril.
While they do not understand to what degree rising temperatures and other weather shifts may have contributed to the outbreaks, they do understand some of the potential mechanisms.
The mosquitoes mostly live on flower nectar, but the female of the species needs a meal of human blood to have enough protein to lay her eggs. If she bites a person infected with dengue, Zika or any of several other diseases, she picks up the virus.
The virus has to reproduce in the mosquito for a certain period before it can be transmitted to another person in a subsequent bite. The higher the air temperature, the shorter that incubation period. Moreover, up to a point, higher temperatures cause the mosquitoes to mature faster.
With rising temperatures, “You’re actually speeding up the whole reproductive cycle of the mosquitoes,” said Charles B. Beard, who heads a unit in Fort Collins, Colo., studying insect-borne diseases for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. “You get larger populations, with more generations of mosquitoes, in a warmer, wetter climate. You have this kind of amplification of the risk.
In principle, the risk from continued global warming applies not just to temperate countries, but to cities at high altitude in tropical countries. Researchers are keeping a close eye on Mexico City, for instance.
With 21 million people in the city and its suburbs, Mexico City is the largest metropolis of the Western Hemisphere. While the lowlands of Mexico are plagued by yellow fever mosquitoes and the viruses they transmit, the country’s capital sits on a mountain plain that has ― up to now ― been too cold for the mosquitoes.
But temperatures are rising, and the mosquitoes have recently been detected in low numbers near Mexico City.
The mosquito is just down the hill, literally,” Dr. Monaghan said. “I think all the potential is there to have virus transmission if climatic conditions become a bit more suitable.



SAN FRANCISCO ― It took six years for Apple to persuade China’s largest wireless carrier, China Mobile, to sell the iPhone. Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, made repeated trips to China to meet with top government officials and executives to woo them personally.
The persistence paid off. In 2013, China Mobile relented, a moment Mr. Cook later described as “a watershed day” for Apple.
Today, China is Apple’s second-largest market after the United States ― Chinese consumers spent $59 billion on Apple products in the last fiscal year ― and the iPhone, the company’s top seller, has become both a status symbol and a form of personal security, given how difficult the device is to break into in a country where people increasingly worry about hacking and cybercrime.
Apple’s success in China helps explain why it is now in a standoff with the United States government over whether to help officials gain access to the encrypted iPhone of one of the attackers in the San Bernardino, Calif., mass shooting last December.
The company is playing the long game with its business. Privacy and security have become part of its brand, especially internationally, where it reaps almost two-thirds of its almost $234 billion a year in sales. And if it cooperates with one government, the thinking goes, it will have to cooperate with all of them.
Tim Cook is leveraging his personal brand and Apple’s to stand on the side of consumer privacy in this environment,” said Mark Bartholomew, a law professor at the University at Buffalo who studies encryption and cyberlaw. “He is taking the long view.
Mr. Cook, who has called privacy a civic duty, said as much in a letter to Apple customers on Tuesday. He described how the United States government was asking for a special tool to break into the San Bernardino attacker’s iPhone and said, “The government suggests this tool could only be used once, on one phone. But that’s simply not true. Once created, the technique could be used over and over again, on any number of devices.
An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment beyond the remarks in Mr. Cook’s letter.
The business advantage Apple may get from privacy has given critics an opening to attack the company. In a court filing on Friday, the Justice Department said Apple’s opposition to helping law enforcement appeared “to be based on its concern for its business model and public brand marketing strategy.
Apple senior executives responded that their defiance was not a business choice. They said there had not been any business fallout and that Mr. Cook had received supportive emails from customers across the country.
In fact, Apple has not made a point of advertising data security and privacy. The company has quietly built privacy features into its mobile operating system, known as iOS, over time. By late 2013, when Apple released its iOS 7 system, the company was encrypting by default all third-party data stored on customers’ phones. And iOS8, which became available in 2014, made it basically impossible for the company’s engineers to extract any data from mobile phones and tablets.
Mr. Cook has also been vocal about how Apple is pro-privacy, a message that he discussed more widely after revelations from the former intelligence contractor Edward J. Snowden about government surveillance. Mr. Cook argued that the company sold hardware ― phones, tablets and laptops ― and did not depend on the mass collection of consumer data as some Silicon Valley behemoths, such as Google and Facebook, do for their advertising-oriented businesses.
At a conference in October, Mr. Cook called privacy a “key value” at Apple and said, “We think that it will become increasingly important to more and more people over time as they realize that intimate parts of their lives are sort of in the open and being used for all sorts of things.
For Apple, cooperating with the United States government now could quickly lead to murkier situations internationally.
People tend to forget the global impact of this,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, policy director at Access Now, a nonprofit that works for Internet freedoms. “The reality is the damage done when a democratic government does something like this is massive. It’s even more negative in places where there are fewer freedoms.
Governments in Russia, Britain and Israel also have robust surveillance operations. Some governments have tried to use technology to gather intelligence on citizens at home and abroad.
Apple’s resistance to the United States government’s demand has been polarizing. Apple supporters have held protests in cities like San Francisco in recent days to show their support of the company and have used hashtags on social media like #freeapple and #beatthecase.
We’re fighting to maintain even the assumption that companies should protect us,” said Evan Greer, the campaign director at Fight for the Future, a civil liberties group that is organizing protests nationwide on Tuesday to support Apple. “Apple is doing what every company should be doing.
Others, including the Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump, have criticized Apple, and Mr. Trump has suggested boycotting its products.
Around the world, people are aware of the impasse but many say it does not affect their decision to buy iPhones and the company’s other products. In Rome on Friday, Simone Farelli, a 34-year-old history teacher who was browsing for a new iPhone at an Apple Store, said she “didn’t see why” the company’s standoff with the Federal Bureau of Investigation “would change my mind about buying a new phone.
In China, the iPhone continues to hold a special place as a symbol of middle-class status.
Wen Shuyue, a 35-year-old consultant, who on Friday was waiting outside the Apple Store in Beijing’s upscale Sanlitun district, is one of Apple’s millions of Chinese users. He said he liked the iPhone because it was simply better than models made by Chinese companies such as Xiaomi and Huawei.
I’ve never used Xiaomi or Huawei, because I think their designs are rough and not all that personal,” he said.
Apple’s shareholders have so far been quiet. In the past, investors who complained that some of Apple’s socially driven initiatives were superfluous to the company’s core business were quickly subdued. At a 2014 shareholders’ meeting, Mr. Cook told investors that if they wanted him to make decisions based only on the bottom line, “then you should get out of the stock.
But data privacy may eventually motivate investors ― and ultimately more customers ― to vote with their wallets because “it’s an issue that speaks directly to the business,” said Michael Cusumano, a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management. “Right now people buy phones regardless of encryption issues, but we have to wait and see how bloody this fight gets.



Northampton, Mass. ― Darfur may have dropped out of international headlines, but that does not mean the region enjoys peace. Far from it. A renewed escalation of violence by the Sudanese government against non-Arab ethnic groups threatens to compound a humanitarian disaster that, according to United Nations estimates, over the past 13 years displaced more than 2.7 million people in Darfur and an additional 380,000 refugees to eastern Chad.
Darfur has become a focus again because the regime in Khartoum is desperate to end one of three active rebellions in the country, conflicts that have left its military badly overstretched while a failing economy is causing civil unrest.
A campaign by regular government forces, once again working in concert with Arab militias, has moved westward from North Darfur to the strategic Jebel Marra massif. The assault on the Darfuri rebels there began in earnest in mid-January and has reportedly involved tanks, artillery and aerial bombing ― the latter often inaccurate and resulting in heavy civilian casualties, the overwhelming majority of them African farmers and their families.
The United Nations estimates that in the first 10 days of the current assault, an additional 34,000 people were displaced, most of them women and children. This is probably an underestimate, but accurate figures are hard to come by, in part because Sudan has long excluded both journalists and relief workers from most of Jebel Marra.
The trek to camps for displaced persons is long and arduous, and these refugees are vulnerable to assaults by pro-government forces. The camps themselves are threatened; they have been attacked with greater frequency and violence in recent years. Sudan’s second vice president, Hassabo Abdelrahman, recently declared that “2016 will see the end of displacement in Darfur” ― a remark seen by many as a threat to dismantle the refugee camps.
Darfur was widely recognized as the first genocide of the 21st century. In 2006, Samantha Power, now the United States ambassador to the United Nations, described it that way; in 2007, so did Susan E. Rice, now President Obama’s national security adviser.
Despite such recognition, the joint United Nations-African Union peacekeeping mission that deployed to Darfur in 2008 ultimately failed to stem the regime’s ethnic-cleansing program, which has included targeted rape. In the past eight years, more than two million civilians have been displaced, some for the third or fourth time. The suffering of the Darfuris has not diminished, but the concern of the international community apparently has.
The head of the regime for more than 25 years, President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, has been charged by the International Criminal Court with multiple counts of genocide and crimes against humanity in Darfur. Yet it seems unlikely the court’s arrest warrant will ever be served. International economic sanctions against Sudan have been too patchy and partial to bring results.
In the absence of effective deterrence, African-owned farmlands continue to be seized by Arab settlers. Crops are destroyed, and African farmers have been beaten, abducted and murdered by Arab militias and settlers.
Bad as things are, they will get worse if the Jebel Marra offensive is not halted. Stopping it will require the international community to act in a concerted way. The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has been too passive on Darfur; he should bring up Khartoum’s new offensive at the Security Council.
To be sure, Russia and China may block action: Both have trade in arms with Sudan, and China has invested heavily there, particularly in the oil industry. But Mr. Ban could at least force a discussion in this forum, and highlight the Security Council resolutions that Khartoum has breached.
The African Union, too, has been far too accommodating of the Sudanese regime: Its Peace and Security Council needs to speak out about the military action in Jebel Marra and enforce a continentwide travel ban on the officials responsible.
The Europeans have also been too tolerant of Sudan’s behavior in Darfur; several countries ― including Sweden, France and Germany ― have permitted business and commercial ties with Khartoum in spite of atrocities. The European Union should threaten economic and financial sanctions like those the United States has imposed. For companies that want access to the American financial system, these sanctions have proved powerful deterrents to assisting Khartoum. In 2014, the French banking giant BNP Paribas was fined nearly $9 billion for violating United States sanctions.
Sudan has run up at least $46 billion in external debt, much of it for military purchases. It can neither service nor repay this debt, which is held primarily by Paris Club creditors, a group that includes many European nations. At the very least, Europe should declare that discussions of debt relief are dead in the water if the Jebel Marra offensive continues. The United States should use its leverage as a Paris Club member to pressure the Europeans to take serious action on Darfur.
Back in 2010, a State Department official spoke of “decoupling” Darfur from what Washington considered a key bilateral issue with Khartoum: counterterrorism intelligence. The proposal was for a lifting of sanctions in return for cooperation on information about jihadists. The administration should rule out any such bargain unless there is an immediate end to the offensive.
Khartoum has a keen ear for cant. The words Mr. Bashir and his allies hear from the international community must have real consequences, or they will have no power to prevent a new chapter of tragedy in Darfur.



SAY you’re doing a web search on something like the flu. The next thing you know, an ad for a flu remedy pops up on your web browser, or your video streaming service starts playing a commercial for Tylenol.
The content of those ads is no coincidence. Digital ads are able to follow people around the Internet because advertisers often place invisible trackers on the websites you visit. Their goal is to collect details on everywhere you go on the Internet and use that data to serve targeted ads to your computer, smartphone and connected television.
This global commercial surveillance of consumers is poised to become more extensive as tech companies expand into the Internet of Things, a category that includes wearable computers and connected home appliances like smart thermostats and refrigerators. Amazon, eBay, Facebook and Google can already follow users from device to device because people log in to their services with the same IDs on various gadgets.
For other marketing companies, tracking people on multiple Internet-connected devices has become a holy grail. The process is complex, because some lack the direct relationship with people that the giant tech companies already have. Only about 6 percent of marketers can reliably track a customer on all of that customer’s devices, according to the research firm eMarketer. But advertisers are working toward the goal.
“Our privacy is completely under assault with all these connected devices,” said Jeremiah Grossman, the founder of WhiteHat Security, a web security firm.
So what better time to get a head start on defending yourself against web snoops (as if email trackers, which this column covered last year, weren’t annoying enough already)? Many companies offer tools to help obscure your digital footprints while you’re browsing the web. We researched and tested four tracker blockers and found their results varied widely. In the end, the app Disconnect became our anti-tracking tool of choice.
Here’s how web tracking works: In general, targeting individuals with digital ads involves a sophisticated ecosystem of third parties ― like online advertising networks, data brokers and analytics companies ― that compile information on consumers.
When you visit websites, these companies typically pick out your browser or phone using technologies like cookies, which contain unique alphanumeric identification tags that can enable trackers to identify your activities as you move from site to site. To sell ads delivered to certain categories of consumers, like suburban singles looking for romance, companies may sync these ID tags to pinpoint individuals.
The downside is, your browsing history may contain sensitive information about your health concerns, political affiliations, family problems, religious beliefs or sexual habits.
“More than just being creepy, it’s a huge violation of privacy,” said Cooper Quintin, a privacy advocate for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights nonprofit that also offers the anti-tracking tool Privacy Badger. “People need to be able to read things and do things and talk about things without having to worry that they’re being watched or recorded somewhere.”
We took a close look at four free privacy tools: Ghostery, Disconnect, RedMorph and Privacy Badger. We tested them with the Google Chrome browser on the top 20 news websites, including Yahoo News, CNN, The Huffington Post and The New York Times.
The tracker busters generally work in similar ways. You download and install an add-on for a web browser like Chrome or Mozilla Firefox. The anti-tracking companies each compile a list of known web domains that serve trackers or show patterns of tracking services. Then when someone connects to a website, the tools prevent the browser from loading any element that matches their blacklist.
 Ghostery, a popular tracker blocker, was the most difficult to set up. When you install it, it asks you to manually select the trackers you want to block. Our problem with that approach is that there are hundreds of trackers, and most consumers probably won’t recognize most of them, putting the onus on users to research which specific services they might wish to block.
Scott Meyer, the chief executive of Ghostery, said this had been a deliberate design choice. When trackers are blocked, parts of websites may not function, so it is less confusing to let users experiment and decide which ones to block on their own, he said.
“We block nothing by default,” he said. “That’s in direct contrast to other companies who are saying, ‘We’re turning everything off and let you turn whatever you want back on.’ That’s way too complex for users.”
The tracker blocking tool RedMorph takes the opposite approach. It blocks every tracking signal it can detect and lets people decide which ones to allow. For parents concerned about their children’s Internet use, RedMorph also offers a service to filter out certain sites or block certain swear words or other language they find inappropriate.
“When you go home, you lock the door and you may pull down the shades at night,” said Abhay Edlabadkar, the chief executive of RedMorph. “You should have the same level of privacy control over your Internet activities.”
In our tests, RedMorph was the most thorough with blocking trackers. It blocked 22 of them on USAToday.com, whereas Privacy Badger blocked seven, Disconnect blocked eight and Ghostery detected eight.
But in the process, RedMorph caused the most collateral damage. It blocked some videos on the websites for CNN, USA Today, Bleacher Report, The New York Times and The Daily News. It also broke the recommended reading list on Business Insider and a Twitter box on BuzzFeed. For people who run into issues loading websites, the company offers an “Easy Fix” button to stop blocking a website’s trackers, but that’s hardly an ideal solution when it causes so many websites to malfunction. Mr. Edlabadkar of RedMorph said the tool was blocking some videos or recommended reading lists because they were loading only after a tracker had been loaded first.
That leaves Privacy Badger and Disconnect. Privacy Badger detects third-party domains that users are connecting with when they’re loading a website and blocks those domains only if they are determined to be tracking you. Its widget shows sliding bars of trackers it has detected. The ones in red are blocked and the green ones are allowed.
Disconnect takes a similarly nuanced approach. The company said some tracking was fair and necessary for a website to work properly ― for example, if a site like The New York Times is using analytics to collect information about readers, as it describes in its privacy policy. However, Disconnect will block trackers from third parties that are collecting, retaining or sharing user data. On its website, it publishes lists of trackers it blocks and those it allows, along with explanations of its policy.
“We really focus on privacy rather than blocking ads that are done in a respectful way,” said Casey Oppenheim, the chief executive of Disconnect. “It’s important we have the ability for publishers to survive and make money. I think there’s a middle ground.”
In the end, we picked Disconnect as our favorite tool because it was the easiest to understand. It organizes the types of tracking requests it is blocking into different categories: advertising, analytics, social media and content.
Mr. Grossman of WhiteHat Security also tested tracking blockers and chose Disconnect for similar reasons. He breaks his online activities into two separate web browsers to make himself more difficult to track: On one browser, he does everyday tasks like reading news articles; on the other browser he logs into accounts that are linked to his personal identity, like online banking sites and Amazon.
But Mr. Grossman said that in the broad arms race between consumers and advertisers, the advertisers always find some way to outmaneuver us.
“We’re talking megabillion-dollar industries totally designed to track you online,” he said. “That’s their mission in life.



Umberto Eco, an Italian scholar in the arcane field of semiotics who became the author of best-selling novels, notably the blockbuster medieval mystery “The Name of the Rose,” died on Friday in Italy. He was 84.
His Italian publisher, Bompiani, confirmed his death, according to the Italian news agency ANSA. He died at his home in Milan, according to the Italian news website Il Post. No cause was given.
As a semiotician, Mr. Eco sought to interpret cultures through their signs and symbols ― words, religious icons, banners, clothing, musical scores, even cartoons ― and published more than 20 nonfiction books on these subjects while teaching at the University of Bologna, Europe’s oldest university.
But rather than segregate his academic life from his popular fiction, Mr. Eco infused his seven novels with many of his scholarly preoccupations.
In bridging these two worlds, he was never more successful than he was with “The Name of the Rose,” his first novel, which was originally published in Europe in 1980. It sold more than 10 million copies in about 30 languages. (A 1986 Hollywood adaptation directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud and starring Sean Connery received only a lukewarm reception.
The book is set in a 14th-century Italian monastery where monks are being murdered by their co-religionists bent on concealing a long-lost philosophical treatise by Aristotle. Despite devoting whole chapters to discussions of Christian theology and heresies, Mr. Eco managed to enthrall a mass audience with the book, a rollicking detective thriller.
His subsequent novels ― with protagonists like a clairvoyant crusader in the Middle Ages, a shipwrecked adventurer in the 1600s and a 19th-century physicist ― also demanded that readers absorb heavy doses of semiotic ruminations along with compelling fictional tales.
In a 1995 interview with Vogue, Mr. Eco acknowledged that he was not an easy read. “People always ask me, ‘How is it that your novels, which are so difficult, have a certain success?’” he said. “I am offended by the question. It’s as if they asked a woman, ‘How can it be that men are interested in you?’” Then, with typical irony, Mr. Eco added, “I myself like easy books that put me to sleep immediately.
While Mr. Eco had many defenders in academia and the literary world, critics in both realms sometimes dismissed him for lacking either scholarly gravitas or novelistic talent. “No cultural artifact is too lowly or trivial for Eco’s analysis,” Ian Thomson, a literary biographer, wrote in The Guardian in 1999 in a review of “Serendipities: Language and Lunacy,” Mr. Eco’s collection of essays on how false beliefs had changed history.
And the British novelist Salman Rushdie, in a scathing review in The London Observer, derided Mr. Eco’s 1988 novel, “Foucault’s Pendulum,” as “humorless, devoid of character, entirely free of anything resembling a credible spoken word, and mind-numbingly full of gobbledygook of all sorts.
Appearing alongside Mr. Rushdie at a literary panel in New York in 2008, Mr. Eco wryly chose to read from “Foucault’s Pendulum.
As a global superstar in both highbrow and popular cultural circles, Mr. Eco accepted such criticism with equanimity. “I’m not a fundamentalist, saying there’s no difference between Homer and Walt Disney,” he told a Guardian journalist who was exploring his juxtaposition of scholarship and pop iconography in 2002. “But Mickey Mouse can be perfect in the sense that a Japanese haiku is.
Able to deliver lectures in five modern languages, as well as in Latin and classical Greek, Mr. Eco crisscrossed the Atlantic for academic conferences, book tours and celebrity cocktail parties. Impish, bearded and a chain-smoker, he enjoyed bantering over cheap wine with his students late into the night at taverns in Bologna.
He and his German-born wife, Renate Ramge, an architecture and arts teacher, kept apartments in Paris and Milan and a 17th-century manor once owned by the Jesuits in the hills near Rimini, on the Adriatic Sea. They had two children, Stefano, a television producer in Rome, and Carlotta, an architect in Milan.
Umberto Eco was born on Jan. 5, 1932, in Alessandria, an industrial town in the Piedmont region in northwest Italy. His father, Giulio, was an accountant at a metals firm; his mother, Giovanna, was an office worker there.
As a child, Umberto spent hours every day in his grandfather’s cellar, reading through the older man’s eclectic collection of Jules Verne, Marco Polo and Charles Darwin and adventure comics. During the dictatorship of Benito Mussolini, he remembered wearing a fascist uniform and winning first prize in a writing competition for young fascists.
After World War II, Mr. Eco joined a Catholic youth organization and rose to become its national leader. He resigned in 1954 during protests against the conservative policies of Pope Pius XII. But Mr. Eco maintained a strong attachment to the church, writing his 1956 doctoral thesis at the University of Turin on St. Thomas Aquinas.
He went on to teach philosophy and then semiotics at the University of Bologna. He also gained fame in Italy for his weekly columns on popular culture and politics for L’Espresso, the country’s leading magazine.
But it was the publication of “The Name of the Rose” that vaulted Mr. Eco to global renown. The monk-detective of the novel, William of Baskerville, was named after one of Sherlock Holmes’s cases, “The Hound of the Baskervilles.” The novel is narrated by a young novice who accompanies William through his investigation at the murder-prone monastery and acts as a medieval Doctor Watson.
In another literary allusion, this time to the blind Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges, who set one of his stories in an encyclopedic library, Mr. Eco named the villain of the novel Jorge de Burgos and portrays him as the monastery’s blind librarian. De Burgos and his accomplices carry out their killings to prevent the disclosure of a supposedly lost Aristotle tome exalting the role of humor. The murderers believe the book is an instrument of Satan.
In “Foucault’s Pendulum,” his second novel, Mr. Eco tells the story of Léon Foucault, a French physicist in the 1800s who devised a mechanism to demonstrate the rotation of the Earth. Despite mixing allusions to the Kabbalah, mathematical formulas and Disney characters, the novel also became a worldwide best seller ― even though it did not receive the near unanimous acclaim that critics had accorded to “The Name of the Rose.
The pattern repeated itself with Mr. Eco’s other novels, which were often disparaged by critics but devoured by readers in spite of their dense prose and difficult concepts. Reviewing Mr. Eco’s fourth novel, “Baudolino” (2000), in The New York Times, Richard Bernstein wrote that it “will make you wonder how a storyteller as crafty as Mr. Eco ended up producing a novel so formulaic and cluttered as this one.
Set amid the religious disputes and wars of the 12th century, “Baudolino” became the best-selling hardcover novel of all time in Germany and a commercial success elsewhere in the world.
Critics were kinder to Mr. Eco’s third novel, “The Island of the Day Before” (1994), in which an Italian nobleman, who cannot swim, survives on his shipwrecked vessel at a point in the tropical Pacific Ocean where the dateline divides one day from another.
Eco has abandoned his familiar Middle Ages to create an extravagant celebration of the obsessions of the seventeenth century,” a reviewer in The New Yorker wrote, alluding to the author’s many anecdotes and explanations on the philosophy, politics and superstitions of Europe in that era.
Last fall, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt published a new Eco novel, “Numero Zero,” translated by Richard Dixon. The story, set in 1992, revolves around a ghostwriter who is pulled into an underworld of media politics and murder conspiracies, with a suggestion that Mussolini did not actually die in 1945 but lived in the shadows for decades. “This slender novel, which feels like a mere diversion compared with his more epic works, is nonetheless stuffed with ideas and energy,” John Williams wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
Mr. Eco received Italy’s highest literary award, the Premio Strega; was named a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur by the French government, and is an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
While he continued to make his scholarly peers uncomfortable with his pop culture celebrity, Mr. Eco saw no contradiction in his dual status. “I think of myself as a serious professor who, during the weekend, writes novels,” he said.



Harper Lee, whose first novel, “To Kill a Mockingbird,” about racial injustice in a small Alabama town, sold more than 10 million copies and became one of the most beloved and most taught works of fiction ever written by an American, has died. She was 89.
Her death was confirmed by HarperCollins, her publisher.
The instant success of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” which was published in 1960 and won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction the next year, turned Lee into a literary celebrity, a role she found oppressive and never learned to accept. The enormous success of the film version of the novel, released in 1962 with Gregory Peck in the starring role of Atticus Finch, a small-town Southern lawyer who defends a black man falsely accused of raping a white woman, only added to Lee's fame and fanned expectations for her next novel.
For more than half a century, it failed to appear. Then, in 2015, long after the reading public had given up on seeing anything more from Lee, a sequel appeared under mysterious circumstances.
I never expected any sort of success with `Mockingbird,”' Lee told a radio interviewer in 1964. “I was hoping for a quick and merciful death at the hands of the reviewers, but, at the same time I sort of hoped someone would like it well enough to give me encouragement.” Instead, she said, “I got rather a whole lot, and in some ways this was just about as frightening as the quick, merciful death I'd expected.
Lee gained a reputation as a literary Garbo, a recluse whose public appearances to accept an award or an honorary degree counted as important news simply because of their rarity. On such occasions she did not speak, other than to say a brief thank you.
In Feb. 2015, her publisher, Harper, an imprint of HarperCollins, dropped a bombshell. It announced plans to publish a manuscript, long thought to be lost, that Lee submitted to her editors in 1957 under the title “Go Set a Watchman.” Lee's lawyer, Tonja B. Carter, had chanced upon it, attached to an original typescript of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” while looking through Lee's papers, the publishers explained. It told the story of Atticus and Scout 20 years later, when Scout is a young woman living in New York, and included several scenes in which Atticus expresses conservative views on race relations seemingly at odds with his liberal stance in the earlier novel.
The book was published in July with an initial printing of 2 million and, with enormous advance sales, immediately leapt to the top of the fiction best-seller lists, despite tepid reviews.
The book soared miles above such criticisms. By the late 1970s “To Kill a Mockingbird” had sold nearly 10 million copies, and in 1988 the National Council of Teachers of English reported that it was being taught in 74 percent of the nation's secondary schools. A decade later Library Journal declared it the best novel of the 20th century.
Nelle Harper Lee was born in the poky little town of Monroeville, in southern Alabama, the youngest of four children. “Nelle” was a backward spelling of her maternal grandmother's first name, and Lee dropped it when “To Kill a Mockingbird” was published, out of fear that readers would pronounce it Nellie, which she hated.
Her father, Asa Coleman Lee, was a prominent lawyer and the model for Atticus Finch, who shared his stilted diction and lofty sense of civic duty. Her mother, Frances Finch Lee, also known as Miss Fanny, was overweight and emotionally fragile. Truman Capote, a friend of Lee's from childhood, later said that Nelle's mother had tried to drown her in the bathtub on two occasions, an assertion that Lee indignantly denied.
Lee was a tough little tomboy who enjoyed beating up the local boys, climbing trees and rolling in the dirt. “A dress on the young Nelle would have been as out of place as a silk hat on a hog,” recalled Marie Rudisill, Capote's aunt, in her book “Truman Capote: The Story of His Bizarre and Exotic Boyhood by an Aunt Who Helped Raise Him.
One boy on the receiving end of Nelle's thrashings was Truman Persons (later Capote), who spent several summers next door to Nelle with relatives. The two became fast friends, acting out adventures from “The Rover Boys” and, after Nelle's father gave the two children an old Underwood typewriter, making up their own stories to dictate to each other.
Capote later wrote Nelle into his first book, “Other Voices, Other Rooms,” where she appears as the tomboy Idabel Tompkins. She made a repeat appearance as Ann Finchburg, nicknamed Jumbo, in his story “The Thanksgiving Visitor.” Lee returned the favor, casting Capote in the role of the little blond tale-spinner Dill in “To Kill a Mockingbird.
Dill)。
Lee attended Huntingdon College, a local Methodist school for women, where she contributed occasional articles to the campus newspaper and two fictional vignettes to the college's literary magazine. After a year at Huntingdon, Lee transferred to the University of Alabama to study law, primarily to please her father. Her own interests, and perhaps her disposition, led her elsewhere. After her senior year, she spent a summer at Oxford University as part of a student-exchange program. On her return from England, she decided to go to New York and become a writer.
Lee arrived in Manhattan in 1949 and settled into a cold-water apartment in the East 80s. After working briefly at a bookstore, she found work as a reservations agent, first for Eastern Airlines and later for BOAC. At night she wrote on a desk made from a door. The local colony of displaced Southerners regarded her askance. “We didn't think she was up to much,” recalled Louise Sims, the wife of the saxophonist Zoot Sims. “She said she was writing a book, and that was that.
Editors at Lippincott told Lee that her manuscript read like a string of anecdotes, not a novel, but encouraged her to revise. Eventually they paid a small advance and assigned her to work with Tay Hohoff, an experienced editor with whom she developed a close working and personal relationship.
Signs of its success were visible almost immediately after it was published in July 1960. Both Book-of-the-Month Club and the Literary Guild made the novel one of their selections, and Reader's Digest selected it for publication in condensed form. A week after its publication, it jumped to the top of the best-seller lists; it remained there for 88 weeks.
In one of her last interviews, with a Chicago radio show in 1964, Lee talked in some detail about her literary ambition: to describe, in a series of novels, the world she grew up in and now saw disappearing. “This is small-town middle-class Southern life as opposed to the Gothic, as opposed to `Tobacco Road,' as opposed to plantation life,” she told her interviewer, adding that she was fascinated by the “rich social pattern” in such places. “I would simply like to put down all I know about this because I believe that there is something universal in this little world, something decent to be said for it, and something to lament in its passing,” she continued. “In other words, all I want to be is the Jane Austen of South Alabama.
Jane Austen)。”
News of the rediscovery of “Go Set a Watchman” threw the literary world into turmoil. Many critics, as well as friends of Lee, found the timing and the rediscovery story suspicious, and openly questioned whether Lee, who was shielded from the press by Carter, was mentally competent to approve its publication. It remained an open question, for many critics, whether “Go Set a Watchman” was anything more than the initial draft of “To Kill a Mockingbird.
In a statement, Lee, who said that she had assumed the manuscript was lost, wrote, “After much thought and hesitation, I shared it with a handful of people I trust and was pleased to hear that they considered it worthy of publication.



ASABA, Nigeria ― Sitting on a blue plastic stool in the sweltering heat, Ugezu J. Ugezu, one of Nigeria’s top filmmakers, was furiously rewriting his script as the cameras prepared to roll. “Cut!” he shouted after wrapping up a key scene, a confrontation between the two leading characters. Then, under his breath, he added, “Good as it gets.
This was the seventh ― and last ― day of shooting in a village near here for “Beyond the Dance,” Mr. Ugezu’s story of an African prince’s choice of a bride, and the production had been conducted at a breakneck pace.
In Nollywood, you don’t waste time,” he said. “It’s not the technical depth that has made our films so popular. It’s because of the story. We tell African stories.
The stories told by Nigeria’s booming film industry, known as Nollywood, have emerged as a cultural phenomenon across Africa, the vanguard of the country’s growing influence across the continent in music, comedy, fashion and even religion.
Nollywood generates about 2,500 movies a year, making it the second-biggest producer after Bollywood in India, and its films have displaced American, Indian and Chinese ones on the televisions that are ubiquitous in bars, hair salons, airport lounges and homes across Africa.
The industry employs a million people ― second only to farming ― in Nigeria, pumping $600 million annually into the national economy, according to a 2014 report by the United States International Trade Commission. In 2002, it made 400 movies and $45 million.
Nollywood resonates across Africa with its stories of a precolonial past and of a present caught between village life and urban modernity. The movies explore the tensions between the individual and extended families, between the draw of urban life and the pull of the village, between Christianity and traditional beliefs. For countless people, in a place long shaped by outsiders, Nollywood is redefining the African experience.
I doubt that a white person, a European or American, can appreciate Nollywood movies the way an African can,” said Katsuva Ngoloma, a linguist at the University of Lubumbashi in the Democratic Republic of Congo who has written about Nollywood’s significance. “But Africans ― the rich, the poor, everyone ― will see themselves in those movies in one way or another.
In Yeoville, a neighborhood in Johannesburg that is a melting pot for migrants, a seamstress from Ghana took orders one recent morning for the latest fashions seen in Nollywood movies. Hairstylists from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mozambique and Zimbabwe, working in salons or on the street, offered hair weaves following the styles favored by Nollywood actresses.
Nigerian movies express how we live as Africans, what we experience in our everyday lives, things like witchcraft, things like fighting between mother-in-laws and daughter-in-laws,” said Patience Moyo, 34, a Zimbabwean hair-braider. “When you watch the movies, you feel it is really happening. One way or another, it will touch your life somewhere.
Back in 2002, the movies were simply known as Nigeria’s home videos. They were popularized at first through video cassettes traded across Africa, but now Nollywood is available on satellite and cable television channels, as well as on streaming services like iRokoTV. In 2012, in response to swelling popularity in Francophone Africa, a satellite channel called Nollywood TV began offering round-the-clock movies dubbed into French. Most Nollywood movies are in English, though some are in one of Nigeria’s main ethnic languages.
Until Nollywood’s ascendance, movies made in Francophone Africa ― with grants from the French government ― dominated filmmaking on the continent. But these movies catered to the sensibilities of Western critics and viewers, and won few fans in Africa, leaving no cultural footprint.
In Nollywood, though, movies are still financed by private investors expecting a profit.
You want to do a movie? You have the script? You look immediately for the money and you shoot,” said Mahmood Ali-Balogun, a leading Nigerian filmmaker. “When you get a grant from France or the E.U., they can dictate to you where to put your camera, the fine-tuning of your script. It’s not a good model for us in Africa.
Mr. Ali-Balogun was speaking from his office in Surulere, Lagos, the birthplace of Nollywood. Film production has since moved to other cities, especially Asaba, an otherwise sleepy state capital in southeastern Nigeria. On any given day, a dozen crews can be found here ― “epic” films with ancient story lines like “Beyond the Dance” are in the works in nearby villages, while “glamour” movies about modern life make the city itself their sets.
One recent entry in the glamour category was “Okada 50,” the story of a woman and son who, after leaving their village, open a coffin business in the city and terrorize their neighbors.
Most films have budgets of about $25,000 and are shot in a week.
Once completed in Asaba, the movies find their way to every corner of Africa, released in the original English, dubbed into French or African languages, and sometimes readapted, repackaged and often pirated for local audiences. Many movies are also propelled by a symbiotic relationship with Nigeria’s Pentecostal Christianity, which pastors have exported throughout Africa.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo, pastors who visited Nigeria years ago returned with videocassettes and showed the films in church to teach Christian lessons and attract new members, said Katrien Pype, a Belgian anthropologist at the University of Leuven who has written about the phenomenon.
Today in Kinshasa, the Congolese capital, Nollywood permeates mainstream culture. Local women copy the fashion, makeup and hairstyles of the actresses; local musicians grumble at the popularity of Nigerian imports, like Don Jazzy and the P-Square twins.
P-Square。
Trésor Baka, a Congolese dubber who translates Nollywood movies into the local language, Lingala, said the films are popular because “Nigeria has succeeded in reconciling modernity and their ancient ways, their culture and traditions.



LONDON ― Britons will vote on June 23 on whether to stay in the European Union or to quit, Prime Minister David Cameron said Saturday, announcing the date of a referendum that could have momentous consequences for a divided Britain and for the rest of Europe.
Mr. Cameron made the announcement after presiding over a meeting of his cabinet ― which is itself split over Europe ― and hours after securing a hard-fought deal, which he said gave Britain “special status” in the 28-nation bloc.
We are approaching one of the biggest decisions this country will face in our lifetimes,” Mr. Cameron said outside his office on Downing Street, adding that he would recommend a vote to stay. “Leaving Europe would threaten our economic and national security,” he added.
Highlighting the historic nature of the decision facing Britain, the cabinet met for the first time on a Saturday in more than three decades, and talked for more than two hours.
The stakes are high for Britain, for the European Union and for Mr. Cameron personally. A vote by Britain to leave would further damage a European Union already battling to control an economic crisis in its single currency zone, and a wave of immigration, prompted partly by the civil war in Syria.
For Britain, a withdrawal would have major implications, too, because it could lose automatic access to Europe’s single market, provoke economic uncertainty and leave the country more isolated internationally. Demands for a new referendum on Scottish independence could be triggered if the English vote differently from the more pro-European Scots.
On Saturday, Mr. Cameron lost no time in highlighting economic and other risks of a British withdrawal, which he called a “leap in the dark.
Yet the referendum remains a gamble for Mr. Cameron, who has often sounded critical of the European Union in the past, but has now shifted to support a bloc that he admits he does not love. His tone became noticeably more pro-European after an agreement struck in Brussels on Friday giving concessions to Britain on a range of economic, sovereignty and welfare issues. His most senior allies, including, significantly, Theresa May, the home secretary, will support Mr. Cameron’s bid to stay inside the bloc.
Theresa May)。
Yet six cabinet ministers made it clear on Saturday that they will campaign for a British exit ― known as Brexit.
Brexit）。
The most significant of those is Michael Gove, the justice secretary and a personal friend of Mr. Cameron’s, whose decision personifies the fissures at the top of the Conservative Party.
But uncertainty surrounds the position of Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, whose support would be seen as a big asset by the “no” campaign because he is renowned as a communicator.
Mr. Johnson, long a Euroskeptic, has not yet made his views on withdrawal from the union clear, and his position is thought by many to be significant because the outcome of the referendum is hard to predict.
Meanwhile the two main groups campaigning for a British departure lack a convincing leader and are divided on tactics. One favors the argument that the European Union lacks democratic accountability, and that it stifles economic growth. A second group places more emphasis on immigration, and says that Britain can only fully regain control of this policy if it quits the bloc.



On the vast lawn of the plaza near the courthouse in Brooklyn where Peter Liang, a former New York City police officer, was convicted in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man just over a week ago, a crowd of several thousand people gathered on Saturday.
They chanted, “No scapegoat! No scapegoat!” and carried signs bearing the same message. Some said they had never had a reason to protest before, while others said they had taken the day off from work or had come by train and bus from across the city ― or as far as New Jersey and Connecticut ― to take part in the demonstration at Cadman Plaza Park to show their support for Officer Liang.
Prosecutors had described Officer Liang’s behavior as reckless when he fired his gun inside a public housing complex, and argued that after the man, Akai Gurley, had been shot, the officer seemed more concerned about his career than in helping Mr. Gurley, who was 28.
Yet Officer Liang’s conviction has gripped many in the city’s Chinese-American community, who believe that he had been targeted for prosecution because of his race. They followed the case closely and have been denouncing the jury’s verdict, arguing that Officer Liang, 28, was a victim himself.
Supporters of Officer Liang noted the strained relationship between the police and African-Americans across the country, after a string of incidents in which unarmed black men were killed by officers, many of whom were never charged.
Officer Liang, in their view, was the one who had to pay the price. One of the printed announcements for the rally read, “In the wake of so many unfortunate deaths of unarmed black men, some cops gotta hang.” The evidence against Officer Liang, his supporters contend, did not seem as clear-cut compared to the cases of other officers who have not been prosecuted. Some also believed that the gunfire had been an accidental discharge.
All the policemen have no punishment for all they did,” said Tommy Shi, 30, who lives in Manhattan and works in a restaurant. “Peter Liang is a scapegoat for all this.” He added: “That’s why we stand for Peter Liang.
On Feb. 11, Officer Liang was found guilty of manslaughter in the killing of Mr. Gurley on Nov. 20, 2014, while he was on a so-called vertical patrol inside a stairwell at the Louis H. Pink Houses, a public housing complex in the East New York neighborhood of Brooklyn. Officer Liang, who is scheduled to be sentenced on April 14, faces up to 15 years in prison.
The officer slumped in his seat after the jury’s decision was announced, and those feelings of defeat were mirrored by many in the city’s Chinese-American community. In the weeks since then, that sentiment has hardened and spread beyond New York.
The case has been debated in Chinese-language social media groups, and online fund-raisers have been organized to support Officer Liang and his family. On Saturday, demonstrators planned to assemble next to the Washington Monument in the nation’s capital, outside city halls in Orlando and Philadelphia and inside Balboa Park in San Diego.
Gary Wu helped organize a rally in Las Vegas. “What happened there, it seems like an accident,” Mr. Wu, 37, said. “It was a tragedy. We also feel very sorry for the loss of the life of Mr. Gurley, but convicting one of the officers is not fair to the officer.
Their argument has been met with resistance, both outside and within the Asian-American community, and Saturday’s rally in Brooklyn was met by a counterprotest.
Soraya Sui Free, 44, a nurse from the Bronx, stood on a median on Cadman Plaza West with a group holding signs with a photograph of Mr. Gurley and the message “Jail Killer Cops.” She criticized the argument, put forth by some of the signs, that Officer Liang was also a victim.
Where is the empathy?” she said. “Peter Liang made a decision for Akai Gurley, and that decision was to die.
An organization founded in the 1980s to confront rising violence faced by Asians, now known as Caaav, has supported Mr. Gurley’s family, a move that has drawn threats and harassment. On Friday, a letter signed by dozens of community organizations and elected officials condemned the targeting of the organization.
Even if the reaction to Officer Liang’s conviction has stirred animosity, some have embraced the moment, viewing it as a sign that a community perceived by some as unwilling to stand up to authority would mobilize.
It’s time that everybody wakes up,” said Jerry Chan, a Brooklyn resident and part of the Coalition of Asian-Americans for Civil Rights, which organized the rally. “Enough is enough. It’s time we should get the same treatment, the same respect, as everyone else.
Thomas Ong, who retired in 1999 as a detective from the New York Police Department after 20 years of service, said that when he became a police officer the department struggled to forge a relationship with Chinese-American residents.
You should call 911 if you have a problem,” Mr. Ong, now a private investigator, said. “They had to be taught that, because they come from a society that didn’t promote that kind of interaction.
Mr. Ong, 64, said the rally demonstrated the progress that has been made over the past three decades, as members of the community saw their relatives and friends joining the force. But Officer Liang’s prosecution also reaffirmed lingering distrust.



Your portfolio of American stocks may have suffered lately but, to judge from major indexes, your portfolio of foreign stocks has probably done much worse for far longer.
Much of the difference can be explained by faster economic growth in the United States and a stronger dollar, which reduces the value of assets priced in other currencies. But all good  or less bad  things must come to an end, and many are encouraging investors to prepare for a shift in leadership and a prolonged period of relative strength overseas.
In the rest of 2016 you’re going to have lots of opportunities in foreign markets, more than in the U.S.,” said Komal Sri-Kumar, president of Sri-Kumar Global Strategies, an investment consultancy. “Foreign markets have had better valuations, and they’re correcting much more sharply.
Fundamental factors like the interest-rate policies of central banks also could make prospects more favorable for foreign stocks. The Federal Reserve just raised rates for the first time since before the financial crisis and signaled that it would do so four more times this year, although Wall Street is skeptical that domestic economic growth will warrant such aggressive credit-tightening. Other central banks, meanwhile, are headed the opposite way.
Monetary policy and business-cycle differences play in favor of international markets,” said Steven Wieting, global chief investment strategist at Citi Private Bank. “Central banks in the eurozone and Japan are easing. More than easing in the eurozone; they’re catching up to where the U.S. was four years ago.
The European Central Bank has been especially loose with credit as it tries to undo the damage caused by its earlier reluctance to match the Fed’s efforts to flood the financial system with money. The Fed’s quantitative easing program  purchases of Treasury bonds and other instruments  ended last year.
Mr. Wieting encourages investing in Europe and oil importers like Japan that benefit from depressed prices. He would avoid countries with economies that depend on resource production, notably Brazil, South Africa and Canada.
David Kelly, chief global strategist at J.P. Asset Management, says that “Europe is looking a lot more promising,” but he finds it “very hard to see Japan make any sustained progress” because of its low population growth and the likelihood of a change in government policy away from weakening the yen. A stronger currency would create difficulties for Japanese exporters.
There are enough difficulties in enough places for Hank Herrmann, chief executive of the asset manager Waddell & Reed, to recommend caution before venturing anywhere too far afield. American stocks represent safety to him in an unsafe world.
I still think there’s enough uncertainty that staying home makes a lot of sense,” he said. “The difference between foreign and domestic may not be sufficient to overcome the uncertainties.
Mr. Sri-Kumar acknowledges that much can still go wrong in foreign markets, especially in the developing world. In fact, he’s looking forward to it.
I was negative on emerging markets for quite a while, but with things falling apart, I’m getting superoptimistic,” he said. He sees those markets, and markets dominated by commodity producers, reaching the capitulation stage, where downturns have gone on for so long and prospects look so bleak that investors just give up. That’s often when a lasting low occurs.
His advice is to invest gradually in diversified baskets of emerging markets and commodities, either directly or through shares of companies that produce them, over the next six months, feeding in the same dollar amount at regular intervals.
You’re going to have a terrific pick beginning in March,” Mr. Sri-Kumar predicted. “The timing could not be better, especially in emerging markets.



The customs officer at Changi Airport in Singapore gestured at my girlfriend’s suitcase as it rolled out from the X-ray machine. He repeated his question for a third and final time: “Are you sure you don’t have anything in your bag that you’d like to tell us about?
By now, panic had spread across my girlfriend’s face. If we confessed to what was in there, we would be in trouble. If we didn’t and they searched her bag, things would only be worse.
She looked at me questioningly, as if this were my country, not hers. “No,” she said to the officer. “We declared everything.
That’s right,” I seconded with a fake, jet-lagged smile.
I wondered if, instead of getting engaged during our Asian holiday, we might be jailed. The contraband we had failed to declare was two cartons of cigarettes, but less than a dozen cartons can land you three to six months in prison in Singapore, even for a first-time offense. No wonder the officer had given us so many chances to confess.
My girlfriend had bought the cigarettes for herself en route because they’re so expensive in Singapore, something she had previously done without a problem. But either enforcement had tightened since her last visit, or she had just been lucky.
As the officer and his colleagues rummaged through our bags, I could see my girlfriend’s family waiting outside the glass doors of the baggage area. A lot was riding on this first impression. I had never met them in person, and my girlfriend hadn’t been home in years. They were beaming at us and waving, too far away to recognize something was amiss, at least until the officers escorted us away.
We were marched into the back of the terminal and through a doorway marked “restricted.” Our escort told us to sit on a bench as his colleagues searched our bags until they found what they were looking for.
With the cartons now stacked at the end of the table, the officer holding our passports asked if we were married.
People who knew us might have assumed we were headed for something more. We had met in graduate school a year earlier and quickly moved in together, and now we had flown halfway around the world so I could meet her family. I had even gone so far as to save up enough of my graduate school student stipend to pay for a hotel room in Bali where I hoped to propose, and for the diamond ring I would ideally proffer.
But all I really had at that point was a setting ― a gold band, its diamond lost long ago, that my mother, a lawyer, had taken as partial payment for a client’s divorce. The empty setting had gathered dust on my parents’ closet shelf for years until I confessed my plan to them, stressing that it was merely hypothetical.
Then my girlfriend and I left on our trip. Unsure if the ring would ever see the light of day, I had stuffed it into my toiletries bag, the one now being emptied by the customs officer.
What’s in here?” he asked, unzipping one of the compartments.
We live much of our lives in a state of paralysis, letting fate make decisions for us. But at the most important moments ― when we’re facing an emergency or falling in love ― we think we will know the right things to do and say.
My instincts just took over,” said the man on the news after rescuing his neighbor’s cat from a burning apartment.
You’ll know when it’s time,” my mother told a much younger me when I asked her when I would marry.
Yet at 30, I had never experienced “just knowing” in that context. I had had many girlfriends, lived with several, even felt as if I loved one or two, but the much-anticipated epiphany ― “I just know she’s the one” ― failed to present itself. Disappointed, I had broken off every relationship.
When I met my grad school girlfriend, I had good reason to think she might be it. She wasn’t just my darling but everyone’s, silly in one breath and serious the next, equally devoted to haute couture and Marxist theory. From the moment our mutual friend introduced us, I kept waiting for that feeling of certainty to overtake me.
Nine months later, I was as happy as I had ever been while still paralyzed by doubt.
Maybe because we live in an age of so many choices, most of them meaningless, we romanticize the notion that falling in love isn’t a choice but something that happens to us. That love tells us what to do, not the other way around. Love is the authority figure, and if love tells us wrongly, then we can’t be held fully responsible.
I had traveled halfway around the world with a half-ring secreted in my bag. I had decided on the cut of diamond I would buy in Singapore, picked out the place and the time I would present it. I did so not because I was sure I would follow through. I simply wanted to give “just knowing” its best shot in the perfect place with the right ring. If love failed to show its authority when the time came, I might have to move on without feeling sure, one way or another.
Now, a real-life authority figure had arrived in the form of this Singaporean customs officer who would yank the ring out of my bag at any minute, forcing me to explain myself to my girlfriend and confess my plans. My years of indecision would end, I thought gleefully. What a funny story to tell our children, once we got out of prison.
Instead, the customs officer started putting our things away. “Smuggling cigarettes is a crime,” he said.
Please,” my girlfriend pleaded. “I didn’t know.
You’re Singaporean,” he replied. “You should know better.
The officer counted out the 20 packs of cigarettes and told us we would be fined 100 Singaporean dollars for each. For two graduate students, it was a staggering sum. We begged, pointlessly. Nearly two decades earlier, when an American teenager in Singapore was sentenced for committing vandalism, not even an appeal from President Clinton could prevent his caning. But at least we weren’t going to jail.
My girlfriend was less than elated, however. She fell to her knees, bursting into tears, pleading for clemency. All year she had saved what she could of her meager graduate student stipend, and now she wouldn’t be able to present her parents with the cash-filled red envelope customarily exchanged at Chinese family reunions.
I’ve been away for years,” she pleaded.
I wanted to be angry at him and his colleague, who was now shredding my girlfriend’s Marlboros one pack at a time, but I felt a grudging respect for his integrity. In many countries, the contraband may have ended up in someone’s pocket.
My only way of comforting my girlfriend was to put the fine on my credit card. I couldn’t tell her what such an expense meant, that I could no longer afford the diamond or the hotel room in Bali.
A few minutes later, we finally reached the arrival lobby. My girlfriend introduced me to her family, who were wonderfully warm but curious why we had been detained. My girlfriend lied, telling them the cigarettes were for a friend, leaving out the outrageous fine.
When we got back to her family’s apartment, we were so exhausted from our ordeal that we headed straight to her room, collapsing on the single bed that was hers as a child. But we were too upset to sleep. The trip wasn’t turning out as either of us had planned.
We were now deeply in debt and unlikely to go anywhere. There would be no grand proposal in a rose-petal-strewn room overlooking the terraced rice paddies of Ubud. Instead, there was only my girlfriend’s childhood room and a bed barely big enough for one of us, much less two.
You wish we hadn’t come,” she said, sensing my mood.
Not at all.” I was thinking of how I had felt when I believed the customs officer was going to expose me, how eager I had been for him to do it and how disappointed I felt when he failed to uncover the ring.
It was a tortuous approach to absolute certainty, but I decided to take it.
Dangling an arm off the bed, I pulled the half-ring out of the zippered pocket and showed it to her. “I’m sorry there’s no diamond yet,” I said. “I was going to buy one here and have it put in, and then give this to you in a fancy hotel in Bali. But, will you marry me?
It has been six years. I have never once regretted it.



HONG KONG ― Tianjin Tianhai, a Chinese shipping group, will buy the technology distributor Ingram Micro for $6 billion in the latest mega-deal involving a Chinese company.
Tianjin Tianhai will pay $38.90 a share in the deal, which Ingram, based in Irvine, Calif., said would help it increase investment and expand its geographical reach. Ingram will suspend its quarterly dividend payment and its share repurchase program until the deal is complete.
The deal was made in the face of growing wariness in Washington over Chinese acquisitions of technology companies in the United States. On Tuesday, Fairchild Semiconductor International rejected a $2.5 billion bid from Chinese state-backed buyers because of fears that the deal would not get regulatory approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, also known as Cfius.
Regulatory filings on Wednesday showed that Tianjin Tianhai would be required to pay Ingram a termination fee of $400 million under several circumstances, among them the dismantling of the deal by antitrust concerns or a review by Cfius.
Ingram will become a subsidiary of HNA Group, an air transport and logistics company based in Hainan, China. Alain Monié, Ingram’s chief executive, will remain in place, and the company said it did not expect any disruptions. Tianjin Tianhai is itself a subsidiary of HNA Group.
We look forward to supporting Ingram Micro’s management team and strategies, including continued expansion into new geographies, while also offering their vendor and customer partners access to new and complementary offerings,” Adam Tan, the chief executive of HNA Group, said in a news release.
Mr. Tan added that Ingram would become the biggest revenue generator for HNA Group and would help it reach “business opportunities in emerging markets, which have higher growth rates and better profitability.
Mr. Monié said that HNA Group’s logistics and its presence in China would support the growth of Ingram.
China International Capital Corporation and Bravia Capital acted as lead financial advisers to HNA Group, and Weil, Gotshal & Manges acted as legal counsel.
Weil Gotshal & Manges)。
Morgan Stanley & Co. acted as financial adviser and Davis Polk & Wardwell acted as legal counsel to Ingram.



HONG KONG ― As markets around the world have churned, China has long taken comfort in having what in the financial world amounts to a life preserver: its vast holdings of other countries’ money.
A year and a half ago, China held as much as $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves. The reserves represented a symbolic trophy for China’s leaders, who have described them as the “blood and sweat” of the workers and upheld them as a sign of national strength.
Now, as China’s economic growth slows, that sign of national strength is slowly ebbing.
China’s foreign exchange reserves are shrinking steadily as money flows out of China and Beijing moves to shore up its currency. The country’s reserves have shrunk by nearly a fifth since the summer of 2014 ― and more than a third of the shrinkage has been in the last three months. By the end of January, reserves stood at $3.23 trillion, a level that has prompted speculation about how much lower Beijing will let them go.
With a smaller pot of reserves, Chinese leaders have less room to maneuver, should the economy undergo a sudden shock. The reserves situation also weakens China’s control over the value of its currency, the renminbi.
The drop in reserves could also hurt China’s efforts to raise its global profile, as it doesn’t have as much money to pump into high-profile projects in developing countries.
If you use up $700 billion of reserves, how much more is going to follow? That is the basic problem,” said Guntram Wolff, the director of Bruegel, a nonprofit economic research institute in Brussels.
The dwindling reserves are one of the many factors shaking global investor confidence because of the impact the slide could have on China’s financial system. A number of investors are now betting that China may have to let its currency depreciate, rather than dip further into its reserves.
Chinese officials are fighting back. In a rare interview published last weekend by Caixin, a Chinese magazine, Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of China’s central bank, said, “China has the largest volume of foreign exchange reserves in the world, and we will not let speculative forces dominate market sentiment.
China’s reserve hoard is a byproduct of how it manages it currency.
During China’s biggest boom years, its currency could have risen in value as huge sums in dollars, euros and yen flowed into the country. Instead, Beijing tightly controlled the value of the renminbi, buying up much of the inflows and putting them into its reserves instead. That brought angry accusations from the United States and Europe that it was manipulating its currency to help keep Chinese exports inexpensive and competitive in foreign countries.
Now that the renminbi faces pressure to fall, China is spending its reserves in an effort to prop up the currency. But many American lawmakers and presidential candidates still accuse China of keeping its currency artificially weak.
The reserves are still considerable, more than double Japan’s, which has the world’s second largest amount. The central bank chief, Mr. Zhou, and others have questioned whether the reserves were too big and the money could be better invested if left in the private sector. Mr. Zhou led a move over the last two years to make it easier for Chinese companies and families to invest their own money overseas, only to find in recent months that the outflows have been disconcertingly fast at times.
China has taken steps to stem further flows out of the country. This winter the Chinese authorities arrested the leaders of underground banks that were converting billions of renminbi into dollars and euros. They also made it harder for Chinese citizens to use their renminbi to buy insurance policies in dollars.
More quietly, Beijing bank regulators have halted sales within China of investment funds known as wealth management products that are denominated in dollars.
Beijing has also instructed bank branches in Hong Kong to limit their lending of renminbi to make it harder for traders and investors to place bets against the Chinese currency in financial markets.
We did receive notice from Beijing in the earlier part of January to be more stringent in approving renminbi-denominated loans,” said a Hong Kong-based China bank executive, who insisted on anonymity for fear of employer retaliation. “It is no fun being caught in the middle, with marketing officers wanting to do more business and the higher-ups telling you to be tougher when reviewing credit proposals.
The erosion of reserves is also politically awkward, given public perception, and Beijing has taken steps aimed directly at shoring them up.
One move would keep more of its reserves free of long-term commitments. China’s central bank now demands that at least some foreign money managers who want to invest part of the reserves pledge to achieve an annual return of as much as 26 percent or else their management fees will be reduced, said a person with knowledge of China’s foreign reserves who insisted on anonymity to avoid retaliation.
Chinese markets rose this week, as some investors bet that China could slow the erosion. Expectations have faded that the Federal Reserve will keep raising interest rates this year, making China look more attractive. And China is running huge trade surpluses, bringing in a steady inflow of foreign money.
Economists inside and outside China are increasingly trying to guess how far reserves must fall before China might consider a sharp devaluation of the currency. An International Monetary Fund model suggests that an economy of China’s size needs $1.5 trillion with strict capital controls and $2.7 trillion without them.
Brad Setser, a former United States Treasury official now at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that China could manage with smaller reserves because the model is not designed for a country with domestic banking deposits as large as China’s.
The Texas hedge fund manager J. Kyle Bass, who has bet on a fall in the renminbi, recently told clients that his firm believes China doesn’t even have the ability to tap all of its reserves because as much as $1 trillion is already committed to long-term investments. But most economists disagree, saying that no more than $300 billion has been committed to various projects and not yet disbursed, while the rest of China’s $3.23 trillion in reserves is readily usable.
Longer term, China looks less likely to commit its reserves to big projects that build up its image abroad, said Victor Shih, a specialist in Chinese finance at the University of California, San Diego. “When you’re losing $100 billion a month, you can’t afford to invest in a highway in the middle of nowhere or a railway in Pakistan that could be blown up,” he said.
In 2014, President Xi Jinping announced that China would provide the bulk of the $50 billion to set up an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and then said a month later that China would also set up a $40 billion fund to invest in many of the same countries that would borrow from the bank.



HONG KONG ― Officials in Taiwan said on Friday that workers had found the body of the last person still listed as missing after the collapse of a 17-story building in an earthquake on Feb. 6.
The discovery brings the death toll from the earthquake to 117, all but two of whom perished in the collapse of the Wei-Guan Golden Dragon apartment complex in the southwestern city of Tainan.
Ellen Hsueh, a spokeswoman for the city, said a digging team had excavated on Thursday the body of a homeless woman, Lin Han-fei, who appeared to have been sleeping next to a column of the building when the 6.4-magnitude quake struck before dawn. The steel and concrete building came down with such force that Ms. Lin’s body was found more than eight feet below the surface, Ms. Hsueh said.
Rescue efforts at the site had been declared at an end on Saturday, with officials saying that everyone who had been inside the building at the time of the quake had been accounted for. But Tainan’s mayor, Lai Ching-te, later ordered a special excavation effort to find Ms. Lin, after police officers said that she often slept next to a particular column of the building and closed-circuit television footage indicated she might have been there the night of the quake.



ARIS ― A suspect linked to the Nov. 13 Paris attackers was found with surveillance footage of a high-ranking Belgian nuclear official, the Belgian authorities acknowledged on Thursday, raising fears that the Islamic State is trying to obtain radioactive material for a terrorist attack.
The existence of the footage, which the police in Belgium seized on Nov. 30, was confirmed by Thierry Werts, a spokesman for Belgium’s federal prosecutor, after being reported in the Belgian daily newspaper La Dernière Heure.
The news set off an immediate uproar among Belgian lawmakers, who charged that they and the country had been misled about the extent of the potential threats to the country’s nuclear facilities, as well as about the ambitions of the terrorist network linked to the Islamic State that used Belgium to plot the Paris attacks, which killed 130 people.
The International Atomic Energy Agency also confirmed on Thursday a report by Reuters that radioactive material had gone missing since November in Iraq, where the Islamic State controls broad areas of territory, adding to fears that the group may be able to acquire material for an attack with newly disconcerting dimensions.
The Belgian news media, citing sources close to the investigation, said that the surveillance footage had been retrieved from the home of Mohamed Bakkali, who was arrested after the attacks and is in detention on charges of terrorist activity and murder.
Belgian officials have asserted privately that Mr. Bakkali may have been involved in planning several attacks, not only those in Paris. There are currently eight people in detention in Belgium and charged with involvement in the November attacks.
The purpose of the footage retrieved by the Belgian police was not clear. But experts and officials speculated that it could have been part of a plot to abduct the nuclear official, who was not identified but had access to secure areas of a nuclear research facility in Mol, and force him to turn over radioactive material, possibly for use in a dirty bomb.
Sébastien Berg, a spokesman for Belgium’s Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, confirmed that the agency had been informed right away of the existence of the footage and said that employees had been told to increase their vigilance on the work floor. But he acknowledged that no additional guards had been hired or other measures taken to secure the perimeters of Belgium’s nuclear sites.
We took increased security measures at all four Belgian nuclear sites, based on the general raised security alert in the country and on concrete indications that showed that the terrorists involved in the Paris attacks had the intention to do something involving one of our four nuclear sites,” Mr. Berg said.
Those sites include two power plants and a private company that produces medical isotopes, in addition to the facility in Mol, where scientists conduct research and experiments on radioactive waste to try to find safer ways to store it and reduce damage to the environment, Mr. Berg said.
One experiment being carried out involves the stocking of nuclear waste in bunkers dozens of meters underground, he said, adding that the facility had large stocks of nuclear waste on hand.
Members of Belgium’s Parliament expressed outrage in a regular session Thursday, saying that the interior minister, Jan Jambon, had told them in January that there was no specific threat to nuclear facilities.
Your services possessed this videotape since Nov. 30, and the nuclear control agency was informed immediately,” said Jean-Marc Nollet, a Parliament member from Ecolo, Belgium’s green party. “So I don’t understand how you could have been in possession of this video since Nov. 30, but on Jan. 13, when I questioned you on this, you answered, ‘There is no specific threat to the nuclear facilities.
I agree we shouldn’t give in to panic, but between giving in to panic and denying the magnitude of the risks, there is a big difference,” Mr. Nollet said.
Mr. Jambon responded that after viewing the tapes, the ministry had determined that there was a threat “to the person in question, but not the nuclear facilities.
Extremist organizations have long expressed interest in obtaining radioactive material, and there is a market for stolen nuclear waste. News reports in October documented at least four attempts by Russian gangs to sell radioactive material in Moldova, which were thwarted by local officials in concert with the United States’ Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The International Atomic Energy Agency identified the material missing in Iraq as iridium-192, a highly radioactive isotope that is sometimes sought for use in dirty bombs.
Mr. Berg said that, if acquired, the material at the site in Mol could also be used to make a dirty bomb, which would spread radioactive material over the whole impact zone.
If they find a way to spread such material among the population, they could do a lot of damage,” he said of the terrorist network. “Anything is possible. It is only up to them to come up with such evil ideas.
However, experts who have studied radiological weapons believe that the physical risk from such attacks would be small, said Jim Walsh, a research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Security Studies Program.
A dirty bomb is not a nuclear weapon,” Mr. Walsh said. “It is a conventional weapon with radiological material strapped to it. Most experts agree that if a dirty bomb goes off, people are much more likely to be killed by the TNT than by the radiological material.



A baby with a shrunken, misshapen head is surely a heartbreaking sight. But reproductive health experts are warning that microcephaly may be only the most obvious consequence of the spread of the Zika virus.
Even infants who appear normal at birth may be at higher risk for mental illnesses later in life if their mothers were infected during pregnancy, many researchers fear.
The Zika virus, they say, closely resembles some infectious agents that have been linked to the development of autism, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia and other debilitating mental illnesses have no single cause, experts emphasized in interviews. The conditions are thought to arise from a combination of factors, including genetic predisposition and traumas later in life, such as sexual or physical abuse, abandonment or heavy drug use.
But illnesses in utero, including viral infections, are thought to be a trigger.
The consequences of this go way beyond microcephaly,” said Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, who directs The Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia University.
Among children in Latin America and the Caribbean, “I wouldn’t be surprised if we saw a big upswing in A.D.H.D., autism, epilepsy and schizophrenia,” he added. “We’re looking at a large group of individuals who may not be able to function in the world.
Researchers in Brazil are investigating thousands of reports of microcephalic births. While there is no solid proof that Zika virus is the cause, virologists studying the outbreak strongly suspect it.
Although the virus was discovered in 1947, there has been no research into its long-term consequences. Scientists are left to draw inferences from what is known of similar infections.
In interviews, psychiatric researchers specializing in fetal development agreed with Dr. Lipkin’s pessimistic prognosis.
A viral attack early in pregnancy can kill a fetus or stunt the growing brain, producing microcephaly, they explained. An infection later in the fetus’s development, when the brain is nearly fully formed, can do damage that is less obvious but still significant.
It is pretty scary,” said Dr. Urs Meyer, a behavioral neurobiologist at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich who studies the consequences of fetal infections in lab animals. “These problems are on a continuous scale, and whether you end up with autism or schizophrenia is complex ― and we really can’t predict it.
Evidence has increased for years that mental illnesses may be linked to exposure during pregnancy to viruses like rubella, herpes and influenza, and to parasites like Toxoplasma gondii.
The effects of Zika mimic those of rubella, some experts noted: Both cause only a mild rash in adults, but can cause stillbirths, microcephaly and eye malformations in newborns.
In the 1964-65 rubella epidemic, about 20,000 newborns suffered consequences, including 11,000 born deaf, 3,500 born blind ― and at least 1,800 in whom mental problems were later diagnosed.
That epidemic infected an estimated 12 million Americans. More than 500 million people live in the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean to which the World Health Organization has predicted that Zika will spread.
Pathologists in Ljubljana, Slovenia, who dissected a microcephalic fetus aborted at 32 weeks by a European woman who had become pregnant in Brazil reported last week that they found “severe fetal brain injury associated with ZIKV infection with vertical transmission” ― meaning the Zika virus had come from the mother’s infection.
But a pathogen may not even have to reach the fetus to cause damage.
Flu viruses do not cross the placenta, Dr. Meyer of the Swiss Institute noted, but the mother’s immune reaction creates a storm of cytokines, some of which do. Cytokines are small “signaling” proteins that can cause cells to stop growing.
Reports suggest that Brazil, which was facing economic crises even before the Zika outbreak, has little capacity to cope with a surge of mentally disabled children.
European researchers initially paid little attention to the South American outbreak, Dr. Meyer said. But that has changed.
The information we’re hearing now is just overwhelming,” he said. “A whole generation of children might be affected.



WASHINGTON ― President Obama will travel to Cuba in March, the White House announced on Thursday, making a historic visit as part of an effort to end more than a half-century of estrangement and forge normalized relations with a Cold War adversary.
The administration announced that Mr. Obama and the first lady will make the two-day trip on March 21 ― the first by a sitting president in 88 years, when Calvin Coolidge visited ― as top Commerce, Treasury and State Department officials were meeting privately with their Cuban counterparts in Washington for talks aimed at expanding business ties between the two nations.
Penny Pritzker, the commerce secretary, opened the discussions on Wednesday, calling on the government of Cuba to open its economy to American business and investment. She said the Cubans must do more to help facilitate commerce after the thaw between the two nations.
Ms. Pritzker said her department had acted aggressively since Mr. Obama’s December 2014 announcement to pave the way for American companies to do business in Cuba, granting 490 authorizations amounting to $4.3 billion last year alone ― a roughly 30 percent increase over the previous year.
30%。
“But we need help from the Cuban side,” Ms. Pritzker said. “The U.S. companies that are attempting to do business in your country continue to face challenges.
She added: “Without specific changes on your side that allow the private sector to engage, our changes will not unlock the opportunities for the Cuban people that both of us want to see.
The talks, which began in a wood-paneled library at the Commerce Department within view of the White House, represent the latest effort by the Obama administration to push forward with the policy shift the president set in motion just over a year ago. But the process is vastly complicated by the American statutory trade and commercial embargo that has been in place for decades and that only Congress can lift.
The president plans to visit Argentina after he leaves Cuba.



Oui,” Charlotte Gainsbourg answered her mother, Jane Birkin, with a giggle.
Jane Birkin)。
It was a little like they were using the telephone for the first time. They last spoke, if you’re curious, about a week ago.
But we text a lot,” Ms. Gainsbourg said.
We do,” Ms. Birkin agreed. “But I must get into Skype. Does it work on a mobile?
Oh yeah it does,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “It’s just you’re always ugly, but it does work.
Well, if I’m ugly, it’s normal,” Ms. Birkin said.
They both howled with laughter. But there is something to the notion that as poised as they are, this mother and daughter ― celebrated for their acting, their singing, their innate style ― aren’t afraid of being ugly when it comes to their art. “I hate films when I have to pretend to be pretty,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “It’s the thing that makes me lose confidence. The pretend is too much. So each time I have dark circles, that’s what I enjoy the most.
Ms. Birkin, who first came on the scene with a nude cameo in Michelangelo Antonioni’s 1966 film “Blow-Up,” seemed admiring. “I’ve realized this about you, and I wish I had realized it about myself earlier on,” she said. “When the whole point, when the only point, is that you’re pretty, then it’s horrifying. I’ve done a few with just being really pretty, and it’s very, very stressful. It would be much nicer to have not given a hoot, and I don’t give a hoot anymore now, but it’s a bit late.
Ms. Birkin, 69, who is British-born but made her career in France, was speaking from Paris in the phone interview, while Ms. Gainsbourg, 44, was in New York. As actresses, they share a fearlessness that takes them to extremes. Beginning Friday, Jan. 29, the Film Society of Lincoln Center will underscore that quality in presenting “Jane and Charlotte Forever,” a series of 19 films spanning five decades that also highlights the work of daring directors like Jacques Rivette, Agnès Varda, Jacques Doillon and Lars von Trier.
That appetite for risk is what Dennis Lim, director of programming at the Film Society, is most drawn to. “They’re very adventurous actresses, and they’re actresses that understand the uses of provocation,” he said. “I also like how they’re loyal. They know how to be muses.
Opening night will include screenings of “Antichrist,” Mr. von Trier’s graphic film starring Ms. Gainsbourg and Willem Dafoe as a couple grieving over their infant’s death, and “La Pirate,” Mr. Doillon’s career-changing film for Ms. Birkin, who plays a woman whose female ex-lover is trying to persuade her to resume their affair.
The series also includes an exhibition of photographs by Kate Barry, Ms. Birkin’s daughter with John Barry, the British composer. Ms. Gainsbourg recalled that Ms. Barry, who died in a fall two years ago, was “always putting makeup on me, dressing me like a doll” when they were children.
Then, of course, there’s the singer, songwriter, actor and director Serge Gainsbourg, Charlotte’s father, who died in 1991 but still lives on in Ms. Gainsbourg’s handsomely chiseled face and in Ms. Birkin’s voice when she sings his songs. The Film Society will screen his “Charlotte for Ever,” which touches on incest and pedophilia and features a 14-year-old Ms. Gainsbourg, and his “Je t’aime moi non plus” (“I Love You Me Neither”), which stars a 30-year-old Ms. Birkin as a boyish young waitress to whom a gay male truck driver becomes deeply attracted.
In another bit of familial overlap, both Ms. Birkin and Ms. Gainsbourg appear in Ms. Varda’s “Kung Fu Master,” in which Ms. Birkin, who wrote and pitched the story upon which the film is based, plays a mother who falls in love with her daughter’s 14-year-old classmate. (The boy, Mathieu Demy, is played by Ms. Varda’s son. That was Ms. Birkin’s idea.
Agnès Varda said, ‘Well, if you take Mathieu, then I want Charlotte,’” Ms. Birkin recalled. “I didn’t think Charlotte would say yes. But we wanted her bedroom. It was all shot in our house, and then the kind girl said yes. It was just too much for her to have her bedroom taken up and put another girl in her bed. I said to Charlotte: ‘You know, you can’t get out of it with Agnès. If you said yes, you can’t go back on it.’ She said she wouldn’t. But I didn’t feel she was enjoying herself enormously.
Ms. Gainsbourg’s response was swift: “No, I wasn’t. But she was living in our house for a year.
She said she still treasured the time spent in her childhood watching Ms. Birkin on film shoots. It was “as if I could watch her with a microscope,” she said. “There was something so privileged about just being able to put my gaze on her.
She also recalled the first time she saw “Je t’aime moi non plus,” on a little television in her room. “I was maybe 18,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “It wasn’t a lot of time before my father died, and so I was able to call him up ― I don’t know if I told you! I didn’t. But it was such a revelation because I had waited so long. I don’t know ― I loved every single thing about it. And that was the first step of watching her as an adult.
And of course, Ms. Birkin watched Ms. Gainsbourg develop as an actress as a girl. She said she was captivated by her natural ability: “She used to put down her comic book and be able to burst into tears across the garden and then go back to her comic book,” Ms. Birkin said. “It’s extremely focused, her work ― she’s always believable. I don’t know whether one could say that about a lot of other actors. If she’s a heroin addict, she’s a heroin addict. If she’s a mother of three, she’s a mother of three. If she’s a virgin, she’s a virgin.
In the films she’s doing, she’s found her way to liberty. She can play all these different parts and still cook dinner for the children.
Ms. Gainsbourg has three children with the French actor and director Yvan Attal. And his comedy “My Wife Is an Actress,” which stars him and Ms. Gainsbourg, is included in the series. It is yet another example of life’s imitating art. That may not be the case with her ravaged performances in Mr. von Trier’s boundary-pushing films, but for Ms. Gainsbourg, “exploring sick things are the most exciting.
When she was shooting “Antichrist,” she recalled, Ms. Birkin was the only person she could confide in. “It was in a humorous way, because it was so extreme that I had a lot to laugh about,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “I could go into every detail and not be ashamed about any of it.
Every detail was a delight!” Ms. Birkin said.
The freedom that Ms. Gainsbourg experiences with her mother, she said, helped her believe that she could take on “Antichrist.” Her parents could be wild, but as a child, she said, she did not suffer or feel shame. “I’m just thinking about my children and how far can I go without being a big problem for them,” she said. “I think I am a problem for them.
Even though Ms. Gainsbourg is the epitome of gangly chic, she hasn’t always felt comfortable in her skin. Her mother, she noted, is literally a fashion icon: “You’re always on mood boards.
The thing is, growing up, I was very, very conscious that I didn’t have the look,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. Ms. Birkin laughed, but Ms. Gainsbourg added: “No, I’m not kidding. I felt so ― not ugly, but just so ordinary in comparison.
On a motherly note, Ms. Birkin had the last word: “You did well to be just yourself and not to try and be like anyone else, because there’s nobody else that looks like you, and there’s nobody else that performs like you.



When I awoke one recent morning in Prague from unsettling dreams, I found myself changed into a tourist on a mission. Changed, anyway, from the traveler I had been when I lived in Prague for three years in the 1990s.
Back then, whatever associations I had between the city and the writer Franz Kafka, a native son, were negative. I loathed the commercialization of Kafka, his face scrawled across coffee mugs and T-shirts in souvenir shops, his name emblazoned on awnings of Old Town cafes and restaurants.
Yet there was always something nagging at me about never having explored the Kafka trail in Prague, an integral part of the city’s cultural history. On top of that, Kafka’s novella “The Metamorphosis,” in which the protagonist, Gregor Samsa, finds himself transformed into a bug, was first published in book form this month a century ago.
And so, I thought, what better time to finally explore the writer and the city with which he is inextricably intertwined. In doing so I’d talk to a fairly diverse group of people about how this city may have influenced one of his most famous works ― and how it may have shaped the famously tortured writer himself.
Once while standing at a window at the Oppelt House at Old Town Square 5, Kafka looked out at the square and said, “This narrow circle encompasses my entire life.” He wasn’t exaggerating, as I learned on a tour booked through the Franz Kafka Society.
The guide, Ondrej Skrabal, a 23-year-old law student, showed me the building where Kafka was born (or, rather, the building that replaced it), and from there we hit what seemed like a dozen other places he had resided ― so much so that it became underwhelming. “That far left window on the third floor,” Mr. Skrabal said, pointing to another building on Old Town Square and pausing. “Yes, Kafka lived there, too.
We passed by a shop his father had owned and stopped to take in the intriguing Franz Kafka Monument (where Dusni and Vezenska Streets meet in Old Town), a 12-foot-high bronze statue of an upright empty suit with a smaller man ― bearing the resemblance of Kafka ― riding on his shoulders. It’s a popular photo op among tourists, and a 12-inch version of it is the literary award that the Franz Kafka Society gives to winners of the annual Kafka Prize.
Aside from the statue, my Kafka tour wasn’t proving to be particularly memorable. But then we got to Kamzikova 6, a building in a small hidden alley just off Old Town Square. The building housed a restaurant called U Cerveneho Pava (At the Red Peacock) and a Segway rental shop aimed at Russian tourists. “Here,” Mr. Skrabal said, pointing to the door, “was a high-class brothel and Kafka regularly came here to chat with the girls.
You mean ‘chat,’” I said, using air quotes.
No, really,” he said, “Kafka was interested in all types of people, and he really did come here to have philosophical discussions with the prostitutes.
The one Kafka home Mr. Skrabal didn’t take me to was Parizska 30, where the writer lived when he wrote “The Metamorphosis” ― that building was destroyed in 1945; today, an InterContinental Hotel stands in its place. “The Metamorphosis” takes place entirely in an apartment, and Kafka scholars have said the writer used his fourth-floor apartment at the time as a model for the one in the story.
I wasn’t staying at the hotel, so I took the elevator to the rooftop restaurant, Zlata Praha. From the outdoor terrace, with the Gothic and Baroque spires of Old Town at my back, I looked down at Svatopluk Cech Bridge, an Art Nouveau span that would have been only a few years old when the writer lived there.
This was, more or less, Kafka’s view from 1907 to 1913. He wrote to a friend about the then-new bridge, saying that this part of the Vltava River had been popular for suicide attempts: “It will always be more pleasant to walk across the bridge up to the Belvedere than through the river to Heaven.
Another important Kafka site that is now a hotel is the erstwhile insurance office where Kafka worked from 1908 to 1922; he complained in his diary that a company business trip was the reason the ending of “The Metamorphosis” was so unsatisfying.
Today the neo-Baroque building is the Hotel Century Old Town Prague, which has some not-so-subtle Kafka references: a bust of the writer; a restaurant named after one of his fiancées, Felice; and, just outside of Room 214, a photo of the writer and a plaque indicating it had been his office.
I had hoped to stay in Kafka’s former office, but it was booked. So I went with plan B: sneak up to the second floor to get a peek at the room. I got to the door and saw the plaque and photo; I considered knocking on the door, but it was 8 a.m. and I didn’t want to disturb its occupants.
I stopped into the Franz Kafka Museum, in the Mala Strana neighborhood, hoping to find a treasure trove of “Metamorphosis” artifacts and information. The self-guided tour provided an entertaining and educational hour on the writer, but there wasn’t much about his famous story.
A couple of days later I turned to the Franz Kafka Society Center, behind the Franz Kafka Bookstore in Josefov.
Many Czechs were unfamiliar with Kafka until recently,” Marketa Malisova, the center’s director, said, explaining that his writing was banned during the German occupation of World War II and then became unpopular after the war because of anti-German sentiment (Kafka was a Czech Jew who wrote in German).
And then there’s the Communist period,” she said. “Because he foretold the tyranny that was to come, the Communist regime didn’t exactly promote his writing.
It wasn’t until after the Velvet Revolution when tourists from Western Europe and the United States began turning up wanting to see the Kafka-related sites that Czechs recognized his importance. “I met a local guy here in Prague in the early ’90s,” Ms. Malisova said, “who asked: ‘Who is this Kafka guy? Is he American? I only see American tourists with Kafka T-shirts.
Just before I said goodbye to Ms. Malisova, she pulled out a book in a plastic container. It was a first printing of “The Metamorphosis”; on its cover was the image of an open bedroom door, a man looking away and covering his face in horror.
Kafka was quite vague about what kind of insect or beast Gregor Samsa had metamorphosed into. He specifically used the phrase “ungeheuren Ungeziefer,” a “monstrous vermin,” as some of his English-language translators have interpreted it.
Not that, please, not that!” he wrote in a letter to his Leipzig-based publisher in 1915, reacting to a potential cover to the very first edition. “The insect itself cannot be drawn. It cannot even be shown at a distance.
That hasn’t stopped readers from conjuring up images of the protagonist as a beetle or cockroach. This includes the infamous Czech artist David Cerny.
David Cerny)。
I met him one day at the MeetFactory, an art center in the Smichov district where he has his studio. Prague is sprinkled with provocative pieces by Mr. Cerny ― a sculpture of a urinating man (directly in front of the Franz Kafka Museum), a statue of the Czech patron saint King Wenceslas sitting on an upside down dead horse.
His most recent installation in Prague is a sculpture of Kafka’s head, set behind the Tesco department store in the center of town. The 36-foot-high head is made up of 42 moving chrome-plated layers, which move both in synchronicity and in opposing directions.
Mr. Cerny’s original idea was a fountain featuring three figures: a robot, referencing the Czech-language writer Karel Capek, who coined the term; a Golem, representing the Yiddish language; and Kafka’s beetle, referring to the German language. “I wanted to remind people that Prague was once a city of three languages,” Mr. Cerny said.
Unfortunately, city water regulations prevented him from placing a fountain there, so instead he came up with the huge reflecting Kafka head, which is based on similar work of his on display in Charlotte, N.C., called “Metalmorphosis.
Metalmorphosis”。
“I loved the irony that this sculpture faces a city government building in Prague,” he said. “Imagine you’re angry because the clerks are doing nothing, only saying for you to go to another office and then another office and another until finally you hear, ‘This office is closed.’ And then you walk out of the building, and there’s the huge head of Kafka looking at you, reminding you of the irony.
A similar irony is not lost on Jachym Topol, the author of five novels and a political dissident in the 1970s and ’80s. I briefly met up with him at a literary festival in Prague, and when I mentioned Kafka, he was happy to talk about what Kafka means today.
During the Communist regime, we used to make samizdat copies of Kafka’s works such as ‘The Metamorphosis,’ ” he said. “And now, along with the Charles Bridge and the castle, Kafka has become a part of Prague kitsch. He’s everywhere and he’s for sale everywhere. It’s his last joke.
Latent jokes seemed to come up with nearly everyone I talked to about the writer, including Jaroslav Rona, the artist who created the Franz Kafka Monument ― the statue of the writer riding atop an empty suit ― at Café Louvre, an attractive high-ceilinged second-floor spot where Kafka would hang out with his writer friend Max Brod.
Mr. Rona’s first attempt at creating a sculpture for the competition to win the right to design the memorial was, naturally, a beetle. The final concept was inspired by a Kafka short story called “Description of a Struggle” ― though it turns out that he inserted quasi-hidden references to “Metamorphosis” as well.
All the other pieces in the competition were basically Kafka on a pedestal,” Mr. Rona said. “But what I did was, after reading ‘The Metamorphosis,’ I realized something about Kafka’s thinking: I love art where it isn’t obvious what the artist is thinking.
And I think this was Kafka’s philosophy, too ― not only in ‘The Metamorphosis,’ but in a lot of his writing. So I used that same type of thinking to create the monument to Kafka.
I asked about possible “Metamorphosis” allusions. He smiled playfully and glanced down at his cappuccino. “I couldn’t imagine making a monument to Kafka without some kind of reference to ‘The Metamorphosis,’ ” he said. “So I planted a somewhat secret reference to it.
After our meeting, I walked to the statue and took a closer look at its base. And there, as I stood among the photo-snapping tourists, I saw on the sidewalk around the base the outline of a beetle.
In Mala Strana, the Franz Kafka Museum (Cihelna 2b; 420-257-535-373; kafkamuseum.cz) is a good primer for those not familiar with the author and his work.
Cihelna 2b; 420-257-535-373;kafkamuseum.cz）。
JayWay Travel (jaywaytravel.com) offers tours of Kafka’s Prague, taking literary travelers from his birthplace to his grave and everywhere else in between.
JayWay Travel (jaywaytravel.
Founded in 2001 by artist David Cerny, the MeetFactory (Ke Sklarne 3213/15; 420-251-551-796; meetfactory.cz/en) is a complex that puts on live concerts and art exhibitions.
MeetFactory (Ke Sklarne 3213/15; 420-251-551-796; meetfactory.
Mr. Cerny’s Kafka art installation is behind the Tesco department store at the intersection of Narodni Trida and Spalena streets.
Jaroslav Rona’s Franz Kafka Memorial statue sits in Prague’s Old Town at the intersection of Dusni and Vezenska streets.
The InterContinental Prague (Parizska 30; 420-296-631-111; icprague.com) is centrally located and offers nice views of Old Town and Prague Castle.
Parizska 30; 420-296-631-111; icprague.
In the erstwhile Workers Accident Insurance Institute of the Kingdom of Bohemia, where Kafka worked, the Hotel Century Old Town (Na Porici 7; 420-221-800-800; centuryoldtown.com) is just outside of Old Town.
Na Porici 7; 420-221-800-800; centuryoldtown.
A former Kafka hangout, Café Louvre (Narodni 22, 420-224-930-949; cafelouvre.cz) has been serving up coffee and cake for more than a century.
Café Louvre（Narodni 22, 420-224-930-949;cafelouvre.



The battle between Apple and law enforcement officials over unlocking a terrorist’s smartphone is the culmination of a slow turning of the tables between the technology industry and the United States government.
After revelations by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden in 2013 that the government both cozied up to certain tech companies and hacked into others to gain access to private data on an enormous scale, tech giants began to recognize the United States government as a hostile actor.
But if the confrontation has crystallized in this latest battle, it may already be heading toward a predictable conclusion: In the long run, the tech companies are destined to emerge victorious.
It may not seem that way at the moment. On the one side, you have the United States government’s mighty legal and security apparatus fighting for data of the most sympathetic sort: the secrets buried in a dead mass murderer’s phone. The action stems from a federal court order issued on Tuesday requiring Apple to help the F.B.I. unlock an iPhone used by one of the two attackers who killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., in December.
iPhone。
In the other corner is the world’s most valuable company, whose chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, has said he will appeal the court’s order. Apple argues that it is fighting to preserve a principle that most of us who are addicted to our smartphones can defend: Weaken a single iPhone so that its contents can be viewed by the American government and you risk weakening all iPhones for any government intruder, anywhere.
There will probably be months of legal tussling, and it is not at all clear which side will prevail in court, nor in the battle for public opinion and legislative favor.
Yet underlying all of this is a simple dynamic: Apple, Google, Facebook and other companies hold most of the cards in this confrontation. They have our data, and their businesses depend on the global public’s collective belief that they will do everything they can to protect that data.
Any crack in that front could be fatal for tech companies that must operate worldwide. If Apple is forced to open up an iPhone for an American law enforcement investigation, what’s to prevent it from doing so for a request from the Chinese or the Iranians? If Apple is forced to write code that lets the F.B.I. get into the Phone 5c used by Syed Rizwan Farook, the male attacker in the San Bernardino attack, who would be responsible if some hacker got hold of that code and broke into its other devices?
Apple’s stance on these issues emerged post-Snowden, when the company started putting in place a series of technologies that, by default, make use of encryption to limit access to people’s data. More than that, Apple ― and, in different ways, other tech companies, including Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft ― have made their opposition to the government’s claims a point of corporate pride.
Apple’s emerging global brand is privacy; it has staked its corporate reputation, not to mention invested its considerable technical and financial resources, on limiting the sort of mass surveillance that was uncovered by Mr. Snowden. So now, for many cases involving governmental intrusions into data, once-lonely privacy advocates find themselves fighting alongside the most powerful company in the world.
A comparison point is in the 1990s battles over encryption,” said Kurt Opsahl, general counsel of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy watchdog group. “Then you had a few companies involved, but not one of the largest companies in the world coming out with a lengthy and impassioned post, like we saw yesterday from Tim Cook. The profile has really been raised.
Apple and other tech companies hold another ace: the technical means to keep making their devices more and more inaccessible. Note that Apple’s public opposition to the government’s request is itself a hindrance to mass government intrusion. And to get at the contents of a single iPhone, the government says it needs a court order and Apple’s help to write new code; in earlier versions of the iPhone, ones that were created before Apple found religion on privacy, the F.B.I. may have been able to break into the device by itself.
You can expect that noose to continue to tighten. Experts said that whether or not Apple loses this specific case, measures that it could put into place in the future will almost certainly be able to further limit the government’s reach.
That’s not to say that the outcome of the San Bernardino case is insignificant. As Apple and several security experts have argued, an order compelling Apple to write software that gives the F.B.I. access to the iPhone in question would establish an unsettling precedent. The order essentially asks Apple to hack its own devices, and once it is in place, the precedent could be used to justify law enforcement efforts to get around encryption technologies in other investigations far removed from national security threats.
Once armed with a method for gaining access to iPhones, the government could ask to use it proactively, before a suspected terrorist attack ― leaving Apple in a bind as to whether to comply or risk an attack and suffer a public-relations nightmare.
This is a brand new salvo in the war against encryption,” Mr. Opsahl said. “We’ve had plenty of debates in Congress and the media over whether the government should have a backdoor, and this is an end run around that ― here they come with an order to create that backdoor.
Yet it’s worth noting that even if Apple ultimately loses this case, it has plenty of technical means to close a backdoor over time. “If they’re anywhere near worth their salt as engineers, I bet they’re rethinking their threat model as we speak,” said Jonathan Zdziarski, a digital forensic expert who studies the iPhone and its vulnerabilities.
One relatively simple fix, Mr. Zdziarski said, would be for Apple to modify future versions of the iPhone to require a user to enter a passcode before the phone will accept the sort of modified operating system that the F.B.I. wants Apple to create. That way, Apple could not unilaterally introduce a code that weakens the iPhone ― a user would have to consent to it.
Nothing is 100 percent hacker-proof,” Mr. Zdziarski said, but he pointed out that the judge’s order in this case required Apple to provide “reasonable security assistance” to unlock Mr. Farook’s phone. If Apple alters the security model of future iPhones so that even its own engineers’ “reasonable assistance” will not be able to crack a given device when compelled by the government, a precedent set in this case might lose its lasting force.
In other words, even if the F.B.I. wins this case, in the long run, it loses.



Donald Trump has been recognized for his mastery of the media, his fascination with gilt and his bold advocacy for baffling hair.
But I think his greatest distinction is as a surrealist. Not since Salvador Dalí has someone so ambitiously jumbled reality and hallucination.
I’m thinking of his news conference in South Carolina on Monday and of one assertion in particular, though with Trump it’s always hard to pick and choose.
In an appeal to African-American voters, he charged that Barack Obama had done nothing for them, and drew a contrast between himself and the president by saying: “I’m a unifier. Obama is not a unifier.
The second of those sentences is debatable. The first is just a joke. Trump sneeringly divides the world into winners and losers, savagely mocks those who challenge him, dabbles in sexism, marinates in racism, and on and on.
To call that unification is laughable under any circumstances. To make that claim to blacks is perverse. Not long ago, he insistently questioned the legitimacy of Obama’s presidency by latching onto the popular right-wing conspiracy theory that Obama had been born in Kenya and couldn’t produce a proper American birth certificate.
Has he forgotten that? Or is he simply betting that Americans have?
Every campaign is a painstaking manipulation of memory, an attempt to get voters to focus on only certain parts of the past and disregard the rest.
Candidates say that they’re eager to run on their records, but what they want from voters isn’t total recall. It’s selective amnesia.
Hillary Clinton would have us dwell on her fight for civil rights in the 1960s. She’d prefer that we edit out bits of the 1990s, when she supported the crime bill and welfare reform.
Bernie Sanders would have us luxuriate in his vision of economic justice. He’d rather us not glance backward and note how little headway he’s made to date.
But Trump is in a different category altogether. He doesn’t so much recast his yesterdays as utterly reinvent them, confident that the brio of his proclamations will mask their bogusness.
Lately he’s been trumpeting his prescience in having urged the Bush administration not to invade Iraq back in 2003, but there’s no such urging on record.
The website PolitiFact went in search of it, combing through newspapers and television transcripts, and came up empty-handed.
Trump makes it sound like he stood on a railroad to try to stop the Iraq war train in its tracks,” PolitFact reported. “In reality, by the time he got around to forcefully criticizing the war, that train had already left the station.
His greatest trick, though, isn’t to toy with memory but to overwhelm it, rendering insults and provocations at such a hectic pace that the new ones eclipse and then expunge the old ones. It’s as if the DVR of the electorate and the media can store only so many episodes before it starts erasing earlier indignities.
His flamboyant present overwrites his distressing past. It’s the eternal sunshine of the spotless Trump.
His proposed ban on Muslims coming into the country exited the discussion much more quickly than it should have. So did his false claims that Muslims in Jersey City celebrated by the thousands on 9/11.
At the Republican debate last Saturday night, when Jeb Bush brought up Trump’s galling dismissal of John McCain’s ordeal as a prisoner of war, he was like a D.J. dusting off a golden oldie from the vault. We hadn’t heard that song in a while.
We seldom read much anymore about Trump the birther (unless it’s in relation to Ted Cruz and Canada). And while that’s partly because his Republican rivals see no profit in an attack on him that could be taken as a defense of Obama, it’s also because there’s been so much other, fresher fodder since.
The sheer volume of his offenses minimizes each affront, and as his shock tactics become predictable, they inevitably grow less menacing, too.
I hear it in the conversations around me; I see it in media coverage that increasingly treats him as a normal candidate. Familiarity breeds surrender, even rationalizations: He doesn’t actually mean what he says. He doesn’t ultimately believe in anything. It’s all strategy, all spectacle. Sit back and enjoy the show.
It’s so fun to watch,” Ezra Klein of Vox recently wrote, “it’s easy to lose sight of how terrifying it really is.
I might quibble with “fun,” but not with the notion that Trump has used a kind of sensory overload to numb us to the fictions he spins, the indecency he indulges.
We can’t lose track. We must keep score. The sum of them is the essence of him, a picture worth a thousand slurs.



In 1997, scientists found the first scrap of Neanderthal DNA in a fossil. Since then, they have recovered genetic material, even entire genomes, from a number of Neanderthal bones, and their investigations have yielded a remarkable surprise: Today, 1 to 2 percent of the DNA in non-African people comes from Neanderthals.
That genetic legacy is the result of interbreeding roughly 50,000 years ago between Neanderthals and the common ancestors of Europeans and Asians. Recent studies suggest that Neanderthal genes even influence human health today, contributing to conditions from allergies to depression.
Now scientists have found that the genes flowed both ways. In a study published on Wednesday in Nature, a team of scientists reports that another instance of interbreeding left Neanderthals in Siberia with chunks of human DNA.
DNA。
This exchange, the scientists conclude, took place about 100,000 years ago. That’s a puzzling date, because a great deal of evidence indicates that the ancestors of today’s non-Africans did not expand out of Africa until 50,000 to 60,000 years ago.
It’s possible, then, that these Neanderthals acquired DNA from a mysterious early migration of humans.
DNA。
“I think at this point we’ve convinced everybody the observation is real,” said Adam Siepel, a geneticist at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and a co-author of the new study. “But the story behind the observation is still very much in dispute.
Humans and Neanderthals split from a common ancestor in Africa about 600,000 years ago. At some point afterward, the ancestors of Neanderthals spread to Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia.
Along the way, Neanderthals took on a distinctive anatomy ― a stocky, powerful build ― and became impressive hunters of big game. The last Neanderthals appear to have died about 40,000 years ago.
In 2010, scientists at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, recovered about 60 percent of a Neanderthal genome from fossils found in a Croatian cave. Neanderthals shared certain mutations with living Europeans and Asians, the scientists found ― but not with modern Africans. They concluded that humans must have interbred with Neanderthals after leaving Africa.
Three years later, the Max Planck team reconstructed the complete genome of a male Neanderthal from a toe bone dating back at least 50,000 years, which had been discovered in the Altai Mountains of Siberia. Comparing the Altai genome to modern human DNA confirmed the interbreeding.
Recently, the researchers harvested more DNA from European Neanderthal fossils, putting together very detailed reconstructions of a single chromosome, Chromosome 21.
Sergi Castellano, a geneticist at Max Planck Institute, set out to compare this European Neanderthal DNA to the genes from Siberia. He was curious about how isolated the populations of Neanderthals were from one another, and how they were related to humans alive today.
He was joined by Dr. Siepel, who has developed powerful statistical models in recent years to trace how DNA changes over time. He and his colleagues are able to compare genomes and infer their common history: how their ancestors split apart, for example, and how large the populations of their ancestors were.
Dr. Siepel, Dr. Castellano and their colleagues used these models to analyze the Neanderthal DNA and that of humans. Their analysis confirmed previous studies: Some Neanderthal DNA did indeed end up in modern Europeans and Asians.
But they also found another example of so-called gene flow, and an unexpected one at that: The Altai Neanderthals in particular shared some mutations with living Africans, but not with Europeans and Asians.
That pattern suggests that an African lineage of humans interbred with the ancestors of the Altai Neanderthal after they split from other Neanderthals.
Dr. Castellano and Dr. Siepel thought at first there was something wrong with their analysis, so they went back to fix it. But when they looked for the problem, they could not find it.
We poked and prodded and poked and prodded, and couldn’t get it to go away,” said Dr. Siepel.
Once the scientists accepted that the interbreeding was real, they estimated when it happened. When DNA gets passed down through the generations, it gets shuffled into new arrangements that can be used to build a sort of timeline.
Based on this gene shuffling, the scientists estimated that humans and the ancestors of the Altai Neanderthals interbred about 100,000 years ago ― long before people were thought to have left Africa. “This observation throws a wrench in the works,” said Dr. Siepel.
Bence Viola, a paleontologist at the University of Toronto and a co-author of the new study, said he was skeptical when he first learned of the genetic data. “It’s really weird, that’s my main impression,” he said.
Eventually, however, Dr. Castellano persuaded him the data were strong, and Dr. Viola looked over the fossil record for possible explanations for the interbreeding.
In the 1930s, for example, scientists discovered 120,000-year-old fossils in Israel that looked a lot like living humans. Many scientists viewed them as a failed human migration from Africa, with no genetic connection to humanity today.
In October, Chinese researchers discovered another intriguing clue in a cave: 47 teeth that they estimate are between 80,000 and 120,000 years old. The scientists argue that the teeth belonged to modern humans.
Dr. Viola is not completely convinced by the Chinese study. Instead, he thinks the scenario that best fits the evidence is that humans expanding into the Middle East encountered and interbred with Neanderthals there. The Neanderthals then migrated east to Siberia, taking human DNA with them.
DNA。
“It seems pretty solid,” said Jonathan K. Pritchard, a geneticist at Stanford University who was not involved in the study. “Overall, the story they’re telling is pretty coherent.
Dr. Pritchard said that more examinations of ancient DNA would help resolve the many questions raised by the new study and help scientists understand the scope of the intimate back-and-forth between Neanderthals and humans.
There’s going to be a lot more data really soon,” he said. “I would expect in the next few years we’ll have much, much more of the jigsaw puzzle, and it will be possible to piece this all together.



When Marc Blumencranz had an opportunity to compete in the 2013 Ironman Triathlon World Championships in Kailua-Kona, Hawaii, he spared no expense in his preparations to go the distance.
His outlays for the race ― known simply as “Kona” among triathletes ― went far beyond a wet suit and a new pair of handlebars for his racing bike. To help acclimate to the Hawaiian heat, he rented a house on Kailua-Kona’s fashionable Ali’i Drive, as well as a block of hotel rooms for the 10 days leading up to the race. He also hired a private chef to prepare his meals, then flew to Hawaii and housed not only his wife and daughter, but also his coach, massage therapist and physical therapist.
Total estimated cost: $100,000.
My first reaction was, ‘You don’t need to do that,’” says Jose L. Lopez of Long Island Tri Coach, based in Mineola, who guided Mr. Blumencranz through the intensive, 10-week buildup to Kona. “I said, ‘I can still train you; I don’t need to be in Hawaii.’ He said, ‘I want you to be there with me.
Mr. Blumencranz, now 52, is a managing director for BWD, a large, privately held insurance brokerage and wealth-management firm in Plainview, N.Y. But his career success hardly makes him an anomaly in the sport. At events like Kona, it is not hard to find affluent competitors willing and able to put serious dollars behind their long-distance dreams.
A 2015 survey conducted for the World Triathlon Corporation ― the Tampa, Fla.-based organizers of Kona and other Ironman races ― found that the average annual household income for Ironman participants is $247,000. USA Triathlon, the largest multisport organization in the world, says the average income for all triathletes, including those at shorter distances, is $126,000.
I don’t know if it’s a rich person’s sport, but it’s certainly an upscale person’s sport,” says Dr. Steven Jonas, a professor of public health at Stony Brook University, a longtime triathlete and the author of the best-selling book “Triathloning for Ordinary Mortals.” “To run a marathon, you need a pair of shoes, a pair of shorts and maybe a water bottle. To do a triathlon, you need a lot more.
Free-spending amateur endurance athletes often pay for more than gear. To gain entry to Kona in 2015, Michael Berland, head of the political polling and analytics firm Edelman-Berland, made a winning bid on a charity slot.
The Ironman Foundation, the charitable arm of the World Triathlon Corporation, funds a number of local initiatives, including youth organizations in Hawaii. Each year, the foundation auctions four spots in the race.
My wife and I decided this would be our philanthropy for 2015,” says Mr. Berland, 47, who lives in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. To make sure he got in, he made what he called “a pre-emptive bid” of $50,200.
It’s what I wanted to do,” Mr. Berland says of his expenditure. “It helps kids in Hawaii, and it got me into the race.
The large portion of successful businesspeople involved in endurance sports isn’t surprising, considering the personality traits they tend to share. These, says Dr. Michael Sachs, a sport psychologist at Temple University, include “high levels of motivation, goal orientation, mental toughness. They also realize that in order to be successful, they need to maintain physical and mental health, and one of the best ways to do that is exercise.
In addition, he says, there’s a “coolness” factor. “If you’re wearing a Boston Marathon T-shirt or an Ironman finisher’s jacket, those are credentials you can’t buy. You have to earn it.
Ironman distance triathlons are not the only events that attract Type A endurance athletes. In the last five years, Jeff Adams, 56, a retired Morgan Stanley executive living in Elkhorn, Wis., has run in 20 marathons around the world, including New York, Boston, London, Tokyo and even Antarctica.
Mr. Adams estimates that his pursuit of running and fitness ― including the cost of travel to his various races, his gym memberships and so forth ― has cost him $50,000 a year over the last five years. But he ticks off what he calls his “return on my running investment,” including improved health, weight loss and the opportunity for adventurous travel.
Women, even successful women, are less likely to be found jetting around the globe or spending significant amounts of money in pursuit of their training and racing goals. “I don’t know many women who are high powered and wealthy and who are also endurance athletes who would go to these extremes,” says the former professional triathlete Lee DiPietro, 57, of Delray Beach, Fla., and author of “Against the Wind: An Ironwoman’s Race for Her Family’s Survival.” But she said that could change.
For his costly 2013 effort, Mr. Blumencranz dutifully did all his training leading up to Kona, the pinnacle of swim-run-bike sport ― a one-day 2.4-mile swim, 112-mile bike ride and 26.2-mile marathon through the island’s torrid, wind-swept lava fields. Qualifying was difficult: Although he had twice completed the Ironman distance race in Lake Placid, N.Y., Mr. Blumencranz is not an elite athlete.
I never saw myself doing Kona,” he admitted. Until, that is, a business associate dropped a word to a high-ranking executive with one of the race sponsors. Mr. Blumencranz, who lives in Old Brookville, N.Y., was then offered a Kona spot. He was thunderstruck. “I told my golf friends that, for me, getting the opportunity to race at Kona was like playing Augusta during the Masters.
On race day, Oct. 12, with his coach cheering him on, Mr. Blumencranz finished in 13 hours 19 minutes 56 seconds ― far from the professional triathlete Frederik Van Lierde’s winning time of 8:12:29, but also comfortably removed from the mandatory cutoff time of 17 hours.
He felt that having his friends and support crew on hand made a difference. “It was like having Team Marc there,” said Mr. Blumencranz.
Dr. Jonas applauds Mr. Blumencranz’s generosity and determination in bringing his support team to Kona in 2013, but isn’t sure of its effect. “If he’d spoken to me, I would have told him, ‘you’ll probably finish in about the same time without all that.
Besides, money can’t buy the satisfaction of true competition. “You cannot buy a finish,” says Dr. Jonas. “It’s what’s inside you.



Many people can roll their eyes, but adolescent girls have practically monopolized the ocular gesture as a form of communication. Adults on the receiving end of an eye roll are often offended, and sometimes that’s just what the girl had in mind. But frequently, it’s not. Eye-rolling serves a variety of purposes, and the meanings behind the mannerism tell us a lot about what it’s like to be a teenager.
Adolescents usually hate being told what to do, and will reflexively resist even suggestions with which they agree. Imagine a girl who is planning to put on her warmest coat when her well-meaning mother urges her to bundle up. If the teenager is developing normally, not a cell in her body is inclined to respond with a sincere, “Great idea, Mom! I was just thinking the same thing.” (And her mom might be stunned, or at least wonder what her daughter was up to, if she did.) But the girl still wants to be warm. Enter the eye roll! One spin around the socket while donning the coat and the girl advertises her resistance while doing as she intended all along.
Given that the drive for autonomy is a central force during adolescence, taking orders can be especially annoying for teenagers. So how should a girl respond when her parents say she can’t go out for the evening until she unloads the dishwasher? She may see no point in fighting back, but still feel compelled to broadcast her objection. Again, ophthalmic calisthenics offer a useful solution. By rolling her eyes while putting away the plates, the girl establishes that she’s an independent state electing to yield, for now, to the regional power.
At other times, girls roll their eyes when adults poke at a sore spot. A teenager hurting over a fight with a friend might shoot a skyward look when a parent asks gently, “How’s Julia? She hasn’t come over for a while?” What seems to be a rude brush-off might actually be the girl’s valiant attempt to hold herself together. Teens can be easily overwhelmed by their own feelings, and they’re often ambivalent about leaning on parents for support. A girl might decide that irritating her dad with an eye roll beats dissolving into tears in his presence.
Girls also use eye-rolling to communicate that an adult has crossed a line. If parents hold irrational expectations, make arbitrary rules, or recruit shame when ordinary anger would do, girls sometimes stick up for themselves by rolling their eyes. Teens who appear to be disrespectful rarely spur adults toward self-reflection, but eye-rolling may be the best defense a teenager can muster in a heated moment. When girls in my practice tell me about their fights at home, I’m often moved by how carefully they weigh the decision to sacrifice something in their relationship with their parent so as not to sacrifice something in themselves.
Of course, girls occasionally use eye-rolling as an immature act of aggression. They attack one another and adults with the dismissive, demeaning gesture and can provoke reasonable people into retaliatory responses. When eye-rolling is clearly meant as an insult, parents can try to raise the relational bar by saying, “That’s rude. I’m trusting you’ll soon find a more mature way to let me know what you’re thinking,” or something along those lines. But more often than not, teenage eye-rolling serves as an efficient solution to the typical challenges posed by adolescence. And it presents adults with a choice: We can take the behavior personally, or we can try to see things from their perspective.










































Plains Exploration & Production Co.



International Business Machines Corp.









Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.


















Samsung Electronics Co., 005930.
Pax Global Technology Ltd., 0327.





















Alibaba Health Information Technology Ltd, 0241.






























A group of hard-line Iranian news media organizations says it has raised $600,000 to add to a bounty for the killing of the British novelist Salman Rushdie.
Iran’s former supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, issued a fatwa, or religious edict, in 1989 calling for Mr. Rushdie to be killed because of his book “The Satanic Verses,” which the ayatollah found to be blasphemous and insulting toward Muslims. Mr. Rushdie has since then been living largely out of sight and under the protection of bodyguards.
The semiofficial Fars news agency, one of the organizations involved, reported that the new reward money was gathered during a trade fair called the Islamic Republic’s Digital Media Exhibition. It quoted the secretary of the exhibition saying that the $600,000 had been announced last week to mark the anniversary of the 1989 fatwa.
The Iranian government distanced itself from calls for Mr. Rushdie’s death under former President Mohammad Khatami, a reformist who declared in 1998 that the fatwa had ended. But the religious authorities said it could not be withdrawn by anyone other than Ayatollah Khomeini, who died four months after issuing it. His successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said in 2005 that the fatwa remained valid.
The decree had already put a considerable price on Mr. Rushdie’s head: A religious organization called the 15 Khordad Foundation initially offered a $2.7 million reward to anyone carrying out the fatwa, then increased it to $3.3 million in 2012. The new money, bringing the total bounty to nearly $4 million, came from 40 news outlets listed by Fars, which said that it had contributed $30,000.
Iranian hard-line organizations tend to make symbolic gestures involving the Rushdie fatwa every year around its anniversary, Feb. 14. Whether the bounty really would be paid is unclear. Many news organizations in Iran do not turn a profit, and some are subsidized by state organizations.
The announcement highlights the continuing political infighting in Iran as elections approach for Parliament and the Assembly of Experts, a council that would choose the next supreme leader. The government of President Hassan Rouhani has promised to improve relations with the West, while his hard-line opponents have campaigned against any opening. Analysts said the hard-liners may have been seeking an electoral edge by raising the Rushdie matter now.
This is just to overshadow the elections, because the hard-liners and their media want to dissuade people from voting in large numbers,” said Mojgan Faraji, a reformist journalist. She said the hard-liners drag up issues from the past to confuse people and to “make other issues more important than voting.



Movies rarely influence public policy, but Washington’s policies on cyberattacks, computer surveillance and the possibility of cyberwarfare were directly influenced by the 1983 box-office hit “WarGames.
The film ― starring Matthew Broderick as a tech-whiz teenager who unwittingly hacks into the computer of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and nearly sets off World War III ― opened nationwide that June 3. The next night, President Ronald Reagan watched it at Camp David. And that is where this strange story ― culled from interviews with participants and Reagan Library documents ― begins.
The following Wednesday, back in the White House, Reagan met with his national-security advisers and 16 members of Congress to discuss forthcoming nuclear arms talks with the Russians. But he still seemed focused on the movie.
At one point, he put down his index cards and asked if anyone else had seen it. No one had, so he described the plot in detail. Some of the lawmakers looked around the room with suppressed smiles or raised eyebrows. Three months earlier, Reagan had delivered his “Star Wars” speech, imploring scientists to build laser weapons that could shoot down Soviet missiles in outer space. The idea was widely dismissed as nutty. What was the old man up to now?
After finishing his synopsis, Reagan turned to Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and asked: “Could something like this really happen?” Could someone break into our most sensitive computers? General Vessey said he would look into it.
One week later, the general returned to the White House with his answer. “WarGames,” it turned out, wasn’t far-fetched. “Mr. president,” he said, “the problem is much worse than you think.
Reagan’s question set off a series of interagency memos and studies that culminated, 15 months later, in his signing a classified national security decision directive, NSDD-145, titled “National Policy on Telecommunications and Automated Information Systems Security.
The first laptop computers had barely hit the market; public Internet providers wouldn’t exist for another few years. Yet NSDD-145 warned that these new machines ― which government agencies and high-tech industries had started buying at a rapid clip ― were “highly susceptible to interception.” Hostile foreign powers were “extensively” hacking into them already; “terrorist groups and criminal elements” had the ability to do so, too.
General Vessey could answer the president’s question so promptly ― and national-security aides could compose NSDD-145 in such detailed language ― because, deep within the bureaucracy, a small group of scientists and spies had been concerned about this looming threat for more than a decade.
In the 1960s, the Defense Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency undertook a program called the ARPAnet. The idea, a precursor to the Internet, was to let Pentagon labs and contractors share data and research on the same network.
Just before the program’s rollout, in April 1967, an engineer named Willis Ware wrote a paper called “Security and Privacy in Computer Systems.” A computer pioneer dating back to the ’40s, Mr. Ware headed the computer science department at the RAND Corporation, the think tank in Santa Monica, Calif.
In his paper, he lauded the goals of the ARPAnet but explained some risks of what he called “on-line” networks. As long as computers sat in isolated chambers, security wasn’t a problem. But once multiple users could gain access to data from unprotected locations, anyone with certain skills could hack into the network ― and, once inside, roam at will, pilfering unclassified and secret files alike. Mr. Ware’s warnings went unheeded for decades, though he remained a frequent consultant. (He died in 2013, at the age of 93.
In 1980, Lawrence Lasker and Walter Parkes, former Yale classmates in their late 20s, were writing the screenplay for “WarGames.” (It would be nominated for an Oscar but would lose to Horton Foote’s “Tender Mercies.”) A hacker friend had told them about “demon-dialing,” in which a telephone modem searched for other modems by automatically dialing each phone number in an area code and letting it ring twice before proceeding to the next number. If a modem answered, it would squawk; the demon-dialing software would record the number, so the hacker could call back later. In their screenplay, this was how their hero broke into NORAD. But they wondered if this was plausible: Didn’t the military close off its computers to public telephone lines?
Mr. Lasker lived in Santa Monica, a few blocks from RAND. Figuring someone there might be helpful, he called the public affairs office, which put him in touch with Mr. Ware, who invited the pair to his office.
They’d come to the right man. Not only had he long known about the vulnerability of computer networks, but he’d also helped design the software for the real NORAD computer. And Mr. Ware proved remarkably open, even friendly. Listening to the writers’ questions, he waved off their worries. Yes, he told them, the computer was supposed to be closed, but some officers wanted to work from home on weekends, so they’d leave a port open. Anyone could get in, if the right number was dialed.
The only computer that’s completely secure,” Mr. Ware told them with a mischievous smile, “is a computer that no one can use.
Ware gave the writers the confidence to go ahead with their project. It’s fitting that the scenario of “WarGames” ― which aroused Reagan’s curiosity and led to the first national policy on reducing the vulnerability of computers ― owed a crucial debt to the man who’d first warned that they were vulnerable.
Meanwhile, Reagan’s directive hit a roadblock. It put the National Security Agency in charge of securing all of the nation’s computer servers and networks ― government, business and personal. The agency had been established in 1952 to intercept foreign communications; it was expressly barred from spying on Americans. Representative Jack Brooks, a Texas Democrat and a fiery civil-liberties advocate, wasn’t about to let a classified presidential decree blur the distinction. He sponsored and got passed a law overriding that directive.
The main author of Reagan’s NSDD-145 was Donald Latham, the Pentagon’s liaison to the National Security Agency ― and a former N.S.A. analyst himself. General Vessey had assigned him to answer Reagan’s question on “WarGames” (Could something like this really happen?). Mr. Latham answered as he did (The situation is much worse than you think.) because he knew that the N.S.A. had long been hacking into the communications systems of the Soviet Union and China ― and what we were doing to them, they could someday do to us.
Mr. Ware had been among the first to draw this conclusion. Mr. Latham knew about it early on because the two were longtime friends, Mr. Ware having served on the N.S.A.’s scientific advisory board. The N.S.A. was the most secretive branch of the American intelligence community. Reagan’s screening of “WarGames” brought Mr. Ware’s concerns into high policy-making circles for the first time. And it sparked the first public controversy over the tensions between security and privacy on the Internet, as well as the first public power struggle about the subject between the N.S.A. and Congress ― a debate and a struggle that persist today.



In February 1984, during that period when a succession of decrepit Soviet leaders were dropping like flies, the British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, traveled to Moscow to attend the funeral of Yuri Andropov. There she made an extremely positive impression on her hosts. Not only did she remain outside in frigid temperatures during the entire ceremony, but her personal security man, who shadowed her in his vast overcoat with immense bulging pockets, drew many admiring glances. “Russian security were deeply impressed by this heavily armed man,” one British official recalled. When, however, Thatcher returned to the Kremlin, she removed her own coat and unzipped her fur-lined boots, “whereupon Detective Superintendent Parker produced a pair of high-heeled shoes from his pockets.” A firearm or a stiletto: Both seemed to have potential in the hands of a leader the Soviets had once christened the “Iron Lady.” But the story is indicative of the way the matter of her gender would often surprise and unsettle Thatcher’s contemporaries.
The excellent first volume of Charles Moore’s official life of Britain’s only woman prime minister made the question of Thatcher’s gender the animating force behind the story: how this grocer’s daughter from an unfashionable part of England overcame the prejudice of the times and her party to become Conservative leader, and then battled the skepticism and constant slights that implied that as a woman, not least a lower-middle-class one, she wasn’t up to the job of running the country. By the end of Volume 1, Thatcher had triumphed over those doubters, not least in leading Britain to victory in the Falklands war ― a conflict during which, inevitably, some had suggested that a female leader might lack the moral fortitude to direct British forces in wartime.
This new volume opens with Thatcher reaping the political rewards of her success, winning a thumping 144-seat parliamentary majority at the 1983 general election, and covers the four-year period up to another comprehensive victory in 1987 when Thatcher became the first British prime minister since Lord Liverpool in the 1820s to win three successive elections. Those two landslides in 1983 and 1987 tell us something of the challenge facing Moore as biographer. Whereas the first volume was in many ways a bildungsroman ― the education of Margaret Thatcher ― this latest volume takes us from electoral triumph to electoral triumph, with not much to challenge her between times. It was, in the words of the Wham! pop song that Moore uses for the subtitle of the British edition of this book, a time when Thatcher had “Everything She Wants.
There were moments of drama, of course ― the national coal miners’ strike and a cabinet scandal known as the Westland affair, for example ― but during such times, even when she was vulnerable, Thatcher’s ascendancy was such that she was only occasionally stirred, and rarely shaken. In this she was helped by the poor quality of her opponents ― the miners’ leader, Arthur Scargill, who took his members out on strike as winter ended and without the mandate of a national ballot, and the verbal circumlocutions of the Labour leader, Neil Kinnock. (“It needed a scalpel,” said Tony Blair, one of Kinnock’s young backbenchers. “All she got from Neil was a rather floppy baseball bat.”) In the end, it was the Provisional I.R.A. that came closest to taking Thatcher down with a bomb attack on her hotel during the 1984 Conservative party conference in Brighton. Had she been in the bathroom rather than the sitting room of her suite when it went off, she almost certainly would have been injured.
For Thatcher, many of the most exacting moments of the period came abroad rather than at home. There was the wooing of Mikhail Gorbachev as the coming man in the Soviet hierarchy, and the presentation of him to the Americans as a man with whom “we can do business.” Surprisingly, Gorbachev was in many ways easier to do business with than President Reagan, the man who claimed her as a conservative soul mate. Thatcher fell out badly with the president over the American invasion of Grenada in 1983, and again in 1986 over what she saw as his naïveté on nuclear weapons at the Reykjavik summit. Her answer to these and other difficulties was relentlessly to pursue her point of view in a way that was uniquely her own. “Almost any other British leader would have let himself be overcome by boredom, embarrassment, good manners or sycophancy towards his powerful hosts,” Moore, in his characteristically laconic style, observes of one such occasion at Camp David in 1984. “But Mrs. Thatcher was impervious to boredom if she thought a point mattered, . . . and she almost never considered repetition a fault.” It was a performance that left the Americans “impressed and exasperated in equal measure.” Reagan admired her greatly, but never let the prime minister get in the way of everything he wanted. Asked why he had humiliated Thatcher by not telling her in advance about the invasion of Grenada, Reagan said simply, “Because I didn’t want her to say no.” It was, Thatcher said afterward, a bitter lesson in “how large powers behave.
The frustrations of life as a junior partner provide some much needed grit in the oyster of what is otherwise a story of essentially unbroken success. The sense of struggle and triumph over adversity that made the first volume so compelling is inevitably missing here. The ground is already well trodden, so there are fewer surprises. Moore had exclusive access to Thatcher’s private and state papers, but any correctives to fine earlier biographies by the likes of Hugo Young and John Campbell are principally those of nuance rather than revelation.
This is not to underplay Moore’s remarkable achievement. He writes clearly and honestly, never letting his essentially positive view of Thatcher get in the way of his “public interest” duty to present us with the evidence as he finds it. Occasionally his broadly thematic approach means that we miss the drama of living in the moment, such as when in December 1984 Thatcher is balancing the miners’ strike, a visit to China to sign the Hong Kong Agreement and a trip to Camp David to berate President Reagan about the Strategic Defense Initiative (Star Wars). One of Thatcher’s greatest strengths was her ability to master astonishing amounts of detail without losing a sense of strategic vision. That achievement is lessened by the inevitable smoothing-out process of Moore’s thematic analysis, which makes events seem clearer than they actually were in the chaos of the day-to-day.
Such cavils, however, are made possible only because Moore himself has set the bar almost impossibly high. His mastery of the vast range of topics with which Thatcher herself had to grapple is absolute, his marshaling of evidence adroit, and his judgments deliberate and fair. Moore remains on target to produce the definitive “case for the defense” of this titanic and still controversial figure. His work will very likely stand alongside that of John Morley, official biographer of Gladstone, as one of the masterpieces of British political history.
MARGARET THATCHER 
The Authorized Biography At Her Zenith: In London, Washington and Moscow 
By Charles Moore 
Illustrated. 821 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.



When the Oscar nominations were announced last month, revealing that not one black actor was in the running, the resulting furor touched on the performances that critics said should have been considered: What about Idris Elba in “Beasts of No Nation”? Michael B. Jordan in “Creed”? Will Smith in “Concussion,” or one of the stars of “Straight Outta Compton”?
The uproar over #OscarsSoWhite made me curious. What does the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences value in black performance? Black artists have been nominated for best actress or actor on 30 occasions, for work spanning 28 films. Over the last few weeks, I watched all of them.
These are movies with a lot in common, not least that most were written and directed by white men. Only three were written and directed by black men. None were directed by women. Perhaps these numbers aren’t surprising, given the well-known demographics of the film industry. Other numbers are more eye-opening.
Consider: In the history of the Oscars, 10 black women have been nominated for best actress, and nine of them played characters who are homeless or might soon become so. (The exception is Viola Davis, for the 2011 drama “The Help.
The first was Dorothy Dandridge, for “Carmen Jones” (1954). That musical drama, like the opera from which it derives, is mostly known as the story of a sexually rapacious young woman and her obsessive, ultimately murderous lover. But it’s also the story of a wily, prideful human running out of places to go. Late in the film, Carmen and her fugitive boyfriend hide out in a seedy Chicago apartment. There’s no money for rent, and soon they’ll be evicted. Carmen, who’s spent the movie working hard to seem carefree and fierce, tries her best to summon that look again as she sets out to scare up food and rent money.
Nearly every black best-actress nominee has faced a similar plight, right up through “Beasts of the Southern Wild” (2012), in which Quvenzhané Wallis played a little girl about to lose her home to a flood. No black woman has ever received a best-actress nomination for portraying an executive or even a character with a college degree. (Though Gabourey Sidibe’s character in “Precious,” from 2009, seems likely to get one eventually.
All 10 performances for which black women have received best-actress nominations involve poor or lower-income characters, and half of those are penniless mothers. Two of the portrayals ― Diana Ross’s incarnation of Billie Holiday in “Lady Sings the Blues” (1972) and Angela Bassett’s depiction of Tina Turner in “What’s Love Got to Do With It” (1993) ― are of singers who enjoy a measure of wealth at some point. But Holiday begins broke, and viewers know she’ll end up that way, while Tina Turner doesn’t have money of her own until the film’s last five minutes. The remaining characters are maids, sharecroppers, criminal-drifter types, impoverished housewives and destitute girls.
A few more commonalities to note: Seven of the 10 best-actress nominees played characters with absent or incarcerated husbands, boyfriends, or fathers. And six of the characters suffer physical abuse, with five of them being raped.
The academy has tended to honor black men for different sorts of roles, and it has honored them more often. Black men have been up for best actor 20 times, with four nominations going to Denzel Washington, three to Morgan Freeman, and two each to Sidney Poitier and Mr. Smith.
Thirteen of the recognized performances involve being arrested or incarcerated. Picture Chiwetel Ejiofor as the newly kidnapped Solomon Northup in “12 Years a Slave” or Mr. Washington behind bars as Malcolm Little, soon to change his name to Malcolm X. (His other nominated characters all face arrest, even his corrupt detective Alonzo Harris, before he flees in the last few minutes of “Training Day.”) Picture the police bursting through the bedroom doors of Jamie Foxx’s Ray Charles in “Ray” (2004) or James Earl Jones’s Jack Jefferson in “The Great White Hope” (1970). Most of the films deliver these men into bondage with the best of intentions ― so we may identify with them, and hate the injustices done them. Nevertheless, the images seem endlessly ― and sadistically ― repeated.
In 15 of the 20 films, the nominated performances involve violent or criminal behavior. It’s often justified or victimless ― or, as with the boxers in “Ali” (2001), “The Hurricane” (1999) and “The Great White Hope,” part of a day at the office. These characters tend to end up in jail anyway. (When the crime is not victimless, as in “Training Day” or “What’s Love Got to Do With It,” the perpetrators often never see the inside of a jail cell.
Ten of the characters have a white buddy or counterpart ― or, when it comes to “Lilies of the Field” (1963), a whole convent full of them. In most cases, the white counterpart is the apparent protagonist. Think of Tim Robbins in “The Shawshank Redemption” (1994), Jessica Tandy in “Driving Miss Daisy” (1989) or Ethan Hawke in “Training Day.
Ethan Hawke)。
Seven of the actors’ films feature no major black female characters. Seven of the characters abuse or mistreat women.
I shared these numbers with Dr. Todd Boyd, the author and professor of critical studies at the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts. He wasn’t impressed, but he also said the focus on the Oscars was misplaced. “The Oscars are a symptom,” he said, and not the illness itself.
The academy president, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, in announcing changes intended to address #OscarsSoWhite, cited the film industry’s failure to produce movies with diverse casts, and Dr. Boyd made a similar point: “You have to backtrack and look at the kinds of movies that African-Americans have been cast in.
These 28 films are full of enormous characters, men and women of world-historic or pop-cultural significance, people who face seemingly intolerable oppression with nigh-unimaginable resolve, characters who are victimized or who encounter and occasionally inflict cruelty.
What they’re not full of is characters who resemble ordinary people. And when such people do make an appearance, the camera tends to linger on the parts of their lives most likely to interest white Americans struggling to reckon with their country’s racist past. We learn all about Miss Daisy ― her son, her childhood, her politics. But we hear only a sentence or two about the family of her driver (Morgan Freeman). Similarly, there’s a lot of information about Billy Bob Thornton’s Hank in “Monster’s Ball.” But watching Halle Berry as the bereft Leticia Musgrove, we see only her wretchedness, and her eventual rescue by a white man.
These are largely isolated characters, said Dr. Miriam J. Petty, an assistant professor in the department of radio, television and film at Northwestern University. “And they’re bound to the destinies of the white people with whom they appear in these films.
It is not entirely surprising that so many of these nominees have portrayed the poor, imprisoned, great or tragic. The history of African-Americans contains many such people, and the academy loves history. Of the 10 most recent best-actor nominees, eight played historical figures. But the academy has never nominated a black leading actor for a role like Woody Grant in “Nebraska” (for which Bruce Dern was nominated in 2014) ― an idiosyncratic person who is both fictional and unexceptional.
If you had a film about an ordinary black guy ― well, that might mean that he knows other black people,” Dr. Petty said. “Those black people might need to be in the movie, too. And then it’s a black film.



Three times in “Mountains May Depart,” the latest from the transformative Chinese director Jia Zhangke, people stand near a river that weaves through the landscape like a snake. In the first instance, three friends light fireworks that send out modest sparks. In the second, only two return to the river, where they ignite a bundle of dynamite. By the third trip, only one of the original three remains, everyone’s life having changed as profoundly as China, a cataclysm that’s expressed by a series of rapid explosions in the river, suggesting a drowning world.
Few filmmakers working today look as deeply at the changing world as Mr. Jia does, or make the human stakes as vivid. The three sending out those sparks are Tao (Zhao Tao), and her two close male friends, Zhang Jinsheng (Zhang Yi) and Liangzi (Liang Jin Dong). An affable, easygoing drifter with an expansive smile, Tao works in a small store in the city of Fenyang (Mr. Jia’s birthplace). Mr. Jia likes a slow reveal and it isn’t initially obvious that Tao is the movie’s emotional organizing principle whose feelings run, surge and erupt. The story tracks Tao and her relations with both Liangzi, who works at a coal mine, and Jinsheng, a budding entrepreneur.
Eventually, Tao chooses one man over the other, a decision that fractures the trio and sends the narrative spiraling in different directions. Mr. Jia’s approach means that you have to do a certain amount of interpretive work, though mostly you just have to pay attention and be a little patient. If you do, you will notice that “Mountains May Depart” is a movie of threes: its main characters, moments in time, narrative sections, historical symbols and even aspect ratio come in triplicate. This schematic quality isn’t necessarily obvious on first viewing, even though the story’s time frames ― 1999, 2014 and 2025 ― are announced on-screen and accompanied by a corresponding increase in the size of the image, an enlargement that mirrors the character’s expanding universe.
When the movie opens in 1999, for instance, Tao is right in middle of the action (and the frame), dancing with a large group to the Pet Shop Boys’ dementedly catchy 1993 cover of “Go West,” an old Village People tune. The original music video for the Pet Shop Boys’ version, an exuberantly surreal pageant, includes shots of Red Square and Vladimir Lenin. Mr. Jia doesn’t reference the video, but it’s likely he used the cover partly because of its post-Soviet bloc resonance. Whatever the case, it’s a lovely, festive scene that suggests that everyone is in a party (or Party) mood. When Tao and the others form a conga line it seems as if they have decided to take the song literally.
Mr. Jia never over-explains his work. The dance feels triumphant, at once choreographed and spontaneous, but there’s no immediate reason for it, even when the date 1999 appears on-screen. It isn’t until the next scene, when Tao is trading New Year’s greetings, that the dance feels tethered to a rationale. By that point, though, you will have had time to think about the dance, to turn it around in your head, consider its possibilities and wonder whether the revelers are spontaneously dancing or celebrating the end of the millennium or the 50th anniversary of the People’s Republic. Or perhaps the scene has more to do with Tao, a woman who smiles and who dances.
Ambiguity is a defining characteristic of the European art cinema; at its most clichéd, directorial solipsism is mistaken for mystery and empty images are turned into endlessly masticated cud for cultists. Although Mr. Jia is obviously conversant with the European art film ― and East Asian cinema and Hollywood and so forth ― he has carved out his own ways of making cinematic meaning, an approach that draws on different idioms and traditions. He occasionally folds an image into the mix that can feel enigmatic, but that over time make sense when considered in the context of the movie as a whole. A shot of an old-fashioned pagoda may not make ready sense, may even look like picture-postcard scenery, yet by the end of the movie it may make you weep.
Mr. Jia has characterized “Mountains May Depart” as his most emotional movie, which may underplay how deeply moving his work can be. While he invariably addresses larger cultural, social and political issues, sometimes openly, at other times obliquely, what makes his work memorable is how those larger forces are etched in the faces and bodies of his characters, in the coal dust that defines one man’s reality ― and, by extension, one China ― and the hard mask that defines another truth, another China. Here, when Tao first walks down a street flanked by modest brick buildings, she is moving through a country that is rapidly being lost to what’s optimistically called development. By the end, she is living in a new world even if, Mr. Jia suggests, her soul remains in the old.
Mountains May Depart” is unrated and is in Cantonese, Mandarin and English. Running time: 2 hours, 11 minutes.



Umberto Eco, an Italian scholar in the arcane field of semiotics who became the author of best-selling novels, notably the blockbuster medieval mystery “The Name of the Rose,” died on Friday in Italy. He was 84.
His Italian publisher, Bompiani, confirmed his death, according to the Italian news agency ANSA. He died at his home in Milan, according to the Italian news website Il Post. No cause was given.
As a semiotician, Mr. Eco sought to interpret cultures through their signs and symbols ― words, religious icons, banners, clothing, musical scores, even cartoons ― and published more than 20 nonfiction books on these subjects while teaching at the University of Bologna, Europe’s oldest university.
But rather than segregate his academic life from his popular fiction, Mr. Eco infused his seven novels with many of his scholarly preoccupations.
In bridging these two worlds, he was never more successful than he was with “The Name of the Rose,” his first novel, which was originally published in Europe in 1980. It sold more than 10 million copies in about 30 languages. (A 1986 Hollywood adaptation directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud and starring Sean Connery received only a lukewarm reception.
The book is set in a 14th-century Italian monastery where monks are being murdered by their co-religionists bent on concealing a long-lost philosophical treatise by Aristotle. Despite devoting whole chapters to discussions of Christian theology and heresies, Mr. Eco managed to enthrall a mass audience with the book, a rollicking detective thriller.
His subsequent novels ― with protagonists like a clairvoyant crusader in the Middle Ages, a shipwrecked adventurer in the 1600s and a 19th-century physicist ― also demanded that readers absorb heavy doses of semiotic ruminations along with compelling fictional tales.
In a 1995 interview with Vogue, Mr. Eco acknowledged that he was not an easy read. “People always ask me, ‘How is it that your novels, which are so difficult, have a certain success?’” he said. “I am offended by the question. It’s as if they asked a woman, ‘How can it be that men are interested in you?’” Then, with typical irony, Mr. Eco added, “I myself like easy books that put me to sleep immediately.
While Mr. Eco had many defenders in academia and the literary world, critics in both realms sometimes dismissed him for lacking either scholarly gravitas or novelistic talent. “No cultural artifact is too lowly or trivial for Eco’s analysis,” Ian Thomson, a literary biographer, wrote in The Guardian in 1999 in a review of “Serendipities: Language and Lunacy,” Mr. Eco’s collection of essays on how false beliefs had changed history.
And the British novelist Salman Rushdie, in a scathing review in The London Observer, derided Mr. Eco’s 1988 novel, “Foucault’s Pendulum,” as “humorless, devoid of character, entirely free of anything resembling a credible spoken word, and mind-numbingly full of gobbledygook of all sorts.
Appearing alongside Mr. Rushdie at a literary panel in New York in 2008, Mr. Eco wryly chose to read from “Foucault’s Pendulum.
As a global superstar in both highbrow and popular cultural circles, Mr. Eco accepted such criticism with equanimity. “I’m not a fundamentalist, saying there’s no difference between Homer and Walt Disney,” he told a Guardian journalist who was exploring his juxtaposition of scholarship and pop iconography in 2002. “But Mickey Mouse can be perfect in the sense that a Japanese haiku is.
Able to deliver lectures in five modern languages, as well as in Latin and classical Greek, Mr. Eco crisscrossed the Atlantic for academic conferences, book tours and celebrity cocktail parties. Impish, bearded and a chain-smoker, he enjoyed bantering over cheap wine with his students late into the night at taverns in Bologna.
He and his German-born wife, Renate Ramge, an architecture and arts teacher, kept apartments in Paris and Milan and a 17th-century manor once owned by the Jesuits in the hills near Rimini, on the Adriatic Sea. They had two children, Stefano, a television producer in Rome, and Carlotta, an architect in Milan.
Umberto Eco was born on Jan. 5, 1932, in Alessandria, an industrial town in the Piedmont region in northwest Italy. His father, Giulio, was an accountant at a metals firm; his mother, Giovanna, was an office worker there.
As a child, Umberto spent hours every day in his grandfather’s cellar, reading through the older man’s eclectic collection of Jules Verne, Marco Polo and Charles Darwin and adventure comics. During the dictatorship of Benito Mussolini, he remembered wearing a fascist uniform and winning first prize in a writing competition for young fascists.
After World War II, Mr. Eco joined a Catholic youth organization and rose to become its national leader. He resigned in 1954 during protests against the conservative policies of Pope Pius XII. But Mr. Eco maintained a strong attachment to the church, writing his 1956 doctoral thesis at the University of Turin on St. Thomas Aquinas.
He went on to teach philosophy and then semiotics at the University of Bologna. He also gained fame in Italy for his weekly columns on popular culture and politics for L’Espresso, the country’s leading magazine.
But it was the publication of “The Name of the Rose” that vaulted Mr. Eco to global renown. The monk-detective of the novel, William of Baskerville, was named after one of Sherlock Holmes’s cases, “The Hound of the Baskervilles.” The novel is narrated by a young novice who accompanies William through his investigation at the murder-prone monastery and acts as a medieval Doctor Watson.
In another literary allusion, this time to the blind Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges, who set one of his stories in an encyclopedic library, Mr. Eco named the villain of the novel Jorge de Burgos and portrays him as the monastery’s blind librarian. De Burgos and his accomplices carry out their killings to prevent the disclosure of a supposedly lost Aristotle tome exalting the role of humor. The murderers believe the book is an instrument of Satan.
In “Foucault’s Pendulum,” his second novel, Mr. Eco tells the story of Léon Foucault, a French physicist in the 1800s who devised a mechanism to demonstrate the rotation of the Earth. Despite mixing allusions to the Kabbalah, mathematical formulas and Disney characters, the novel also became a worldwide best seller ― even though it did not receive the near unanimous acclaim that critics had accorded to “The Name of the Rose.
The pattern repeated itself with Mr. Eco’s other novels, which were often disparaged by critics but devoured by readers in spite of their dense prose and difficult concepts. Reviewing Mr. Eco’s fourth novel, “Baudolino” (2000), in The New York Times, Richard Bernstein wrote that it “will make you wonder how a storyteller as crafty as Mr. Eco ended up producing a novel so formulaic and cluttered as this one.
Set amid the religious disputes and wars of the 12th century, “Baudolino” became the best-selling hardcover novel of all time in Germany and a commercial success elsewhere in the world.
Critics were kinder to Mr. Eco’s third novel, “The Island of the Day Before” (1994), in which an Italian nobleman, who cannot swim, survives on his shipwrecked vessel at a point in the tropical Pacific Ocean where the dateline divides one day from another.
Eco has abandoned his familiar Middle Ages to create an extravagant celebration of the obsessions of the seventeenth century,” a reviewer in The New Yorker wrote, alluding to the author’s many anecdotes and explanations on the philosophy, politics and superstitions of Europe in that era.
Last fall, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt published a new Eco novel, “Numero Zero,” translated by Richard Dixon. The story, set in 1992, revolves around a ghostwriter who is pulled into an underworld of media politics and murder conspiracies, with a suggestion that Mussolini did not actually die in 1945 but lived in the shadows for decades. “This slender novel, which feels like a mere diversion compared with his more epic works, is nonetheless stuffed with ideas and energy,” John Williams wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
Mr. Eco received Italy’s highest literary award, the Premio Strega; was named a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur by the French government, and is an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
While he continued to make his scholarly peers uncomfortable with his pop culture celebrity, Mr. Eco saw no contradiction in his dual status. “I think of myself as a serious professor who, during the weekend, writes novels,” he said.



Harper Lee, whose first novel, “To Kill a Mockingbird,” about racial injustice in a small Alabama town, sold more than 10 million copies and became one of the most beloved and most taught works of fiction ever written by an American, has died. She was 89.
Her death was confirmed by HarperCollins, her publisher.
The instant success of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” which was published in 1960 and won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction the next year, turned Lee into a literary celebrity, a role she found oppressive and never learned to accept. The enormous success of the film version of the novel, released in 1962 with Gregory Peck in the starring role of Atticus Finch, a small-town Southern lawyer who defends a black man falsely accused of raping a white woman, only added to Lee's fame and fanned expectations for her next novel.
For more than half a century, it failed to appear. Then, in 2015, long after the reading public had given up on seeing anything more from Lee, a sequel appeared under mysterious circumstances.
I never expected any sort of success with `Mockingbird,”' Lee told a radio interviewer in 1964. “I was hoping for a quick and merciful death at the hands of the reviewers, but, at the same time I sort of hoped someone would like it well enough to give me encouragement.” Instead, she said, “I got rather a whole lot, and in some ways this was just about as frightening as the quick, merciful death I'd expected.
Lee gained a reputation as a literary Garbo, a recluse whose public appearances to accept an award or an honorary degree counted as important news simply because of their rarity. On such occasions she did not speak, other than to say a brief thank you.
In Feb. 2015, her publisher, Harper, an imprint of HarperCollins, dropped a bombshell. It announced plans to publish a manuscript, long thought to be lost, that Lee submitted to her editors in 1957 under the title “Go Set a Watchman.” Lee's lawyer, Tonja B. Carter, had chanced upon it, attached to an original typescript of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” while looking through Lee's papers, the publishers explained. It told the story of Atticus and Scout 20 years later, when Scout is a young woman living in New York, and included several scenes in which Atticus expresses conservative views on race relations seemingly at odds with his liberal stance in the earlier novel.
The book was published in July with an initial printing of 2 million and, with enormous advance sales, immediately leapt to the top of the fiction best-seller lists, despite tepid reviews.
The book soared miles above such criticisms. By the late 1970s “To Kill a Mockingbird” had sold nearly 10 million copies, and in 1988 the National Council of Teachers of English reported that it was being taught in 74 percent of the nation's secondary schools. A decade later Library Journal declared it the best novel of the 20th century.
Nelle Harper Lee was born in the poky little town of Monroeville, in southern Alabama, the youngest of four children. “Nelle” was a backward spelling of her maternal grandmother's first name, and Lee dropped it when “To Kill a Mockingbird” was published, out of fear that readers would pronounce it Nellie, which she hated.
Her father, Asa Coleman Lee, was a prominent lawyer and the model for Atticus Finch, who shared his stilted diction and lofty sense of civic duty. Her mother, Frances Finch Lee, also known as Miss Fanny, was overweight and emotionally fragile. Truman Capote, a friend of Lee's from childhood, later said that Nelle's mother had tried to drown her in the bathtub on two occasions, an assertion that Lee indignantly denied.
Lee was a tough little tomboy who enjoyed beating up the local boys, climbing trees and rolling in the dirt. “A dress on the young Nelle would have been as out of place as a silk hat on a hog,” recalled Marie Rudisill, Capote's aunt, in her book “Truman Capote: The Story of His Bizarre and Exotic Boyhood by an Aunt Who Helped Raise Him.
One boy on the receiving end of Nelle's thrashings was Truman Persons (later Capote), who spent several summers next door to Nelle with relatives. The two became fast friends, acting out adventures from “The Rover Boys” and, after Nelle's father gave the two children an old Underwood typewriter, making up their own stories to dictate to each other.
Capote later wrote Nelle into his first book, “Other Voices, Other Rooms,” where she appears as the tomboy Idabel Tompkins. She made a repeat appearance as Ann Finchburg, nicknamed Jumbo, in his story “The Thanksgiving Visitor.” Lee returned the favor, casting Capote in the role of the little blond tale-spinner Dill in “To Kill a Mockingbird.
Dill)。
Lee attended Huntingdon College, a local Methodist school for women, where she contributed occasional articles to the campus newspaper and two fictional vignettes to the college's literary magazine. After a year at Huntingdon, Lee transferred to the University of Alabama to study law, primarily to please her father. Her own interests, and perhaps her disposition, led her elsewhere. After her senior year, she spent a summer at Oxford University as part of a student-exchange program. On her return from England, she decided to go to New York and become a writer.
Lee arrived in Manhattan in 1949 and settled into a cold-water apartment in the East 80s. After working briefly at a bookstore, she found work as a reservations agent, first for Eastern Airlines and later for BOAC. At night she wrote on a desk made from a door. The local colony of displaced Southerners regarded her askance. “We didn't think she was up to much,” recalled Louise Sims, the wife of the saxophonist Zoot Sims. “She said she was writing a book, and that was that.
Editors at Lippincott told Lee that her manuscript read like a string of anecdotes, not a novel, but encouraged her to revise. Eventually they paid a small advance and assigned her to work with Tay Hohoff, an experienced editor with whom she developed a close working and personal relationship.
Signs of its success were visible almost immediately after it was published in July 1960. Both Book-of-the-Month Club and the Literary Guild made the novel one of their selections, and Reader's Digest selected it for publication in condensed form. A week after its publication, it jumped to the top of the best-seller lists; it remained there for 88 weeks.
In one of her last interviews, with a Chicago radio show in 1964, Lee talked in some detail about her literary ambition: to describe, in a series of novels, the world she grew up in and now saw disappearing. “This is small-town middle-class Southern life as opposed to the Gothic, as opposed to `Tobacco Road,' as opposed to plantation life,” she told her interviewer, adding that she was fascinated by the “rich social pattern” in such places. “I would simply like to put down all I know about this because I believe that there is something universal in this little world, something decent to be said for it, and something to lament in its passing,” she continued. “In other words, all I want to be is the Jane Austen of South Alabama.
Jane Austen)。”
News of the rediscovery of “Go Set a Watchman” threw the literary world into turmoil. Many critics, as well as friends of Lee, found the timing and the rediscovery story suspicious, and openly questioned whether Lee, who was shielded from the press by Carter, was mentally competent to approve its publication. It remained an open question, for many critics, whether “Go Set a Watchman” was anything more than the initial draft of “To Kill a Mockingbird.
In a statement, Lee, who said that she had assumed the manuscript was lost, wrote, “After much thought and hesitation, I shared it with a handful of people I trust and was pleased to hear that they considered it worthy of publication.



ASABA, Nigeria ― Sitting on a blue plastic stool in the sweltering heat, Ugezu J. Ugezu, one of Nigeria’s top filmmakers, was furiously rewriting his script as the cameras prepared to roll. “Cut!” he shouted after wrapping up a key scene, a confrontation between the two leading characters. Then, under his breath, he added, “Good as it gets.
This was the seventh ― and last ― day of shooting in a village near here for “Beyond the Dance,” Mr. Ugezu’s story of an African prince’s choice of a bride, and the production had been conducted at a breakneck pace.
In Nollywood, you don’t waste time,” he said. “It’s not the technical depth that has made our films so popular. It’s because of the story. We tell African stories.
The stories told by Nigeria’s booming film industry, known as Nollywood, have emerged as a cultural phenomenon across Africa, the vanguard of the country’s growing influence across the continent in music, comedy, fashion and even religion.
Nollywood generates about 2,500 movies a year, making it the second-biggest producer after Bollywood in India, and its films have displaced American, Indian and Chinese ones on the televisions that are ubiquitous in bars, hair salons, airport lounges and homes across Africa.
The industry employs a million people ― second only to farming ― in Nigeria, pumping $600 million annually into the national economy, according to a 2014 report by the United States International Trade Commission. In 2002, it made 400 movies and $45 million.
Nollywood resonates across Africa with its stories of a precolonial past and of a present caught between village life and urban modernity. The movies explore the tensions between the individual and extended families, between the draw of urban life and the pull of the village, between Christianity and traditional beliefs. For countless people, in a place long shaped by outsiders, Nollywood is redefining the African experience.
I doubt that a white person, a European or American, can appreciate Nollywood movies the way an African can,” said Katsuva Ngoloma, a linguist at the University of Lubumbashi in the Democratic Republic of Congo who has written about Nollywood’s significance. “But Africans ― the rich, the poor, everyone ― will see themselves in those movies in one way or another.
In Yeoville, a neighborhood in Johannesburg that is a melting pot for migrants, a seamstress from Ghana took orders one recent morning for the latest fashions seen in Nollywood movies. Hairstylists from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mozambique and Zimbabwe, working in salons or on the street, offered hair weaves following the styles favored by Nollywood actresses.
Nigerian movies express how we live as Africans, what we experience in our everyday lives, things like witchcraft, things like fighting between mother-in-laws and daughter-in-laws,” said Patience Moyo, 34, a Zimbabwean hair-braider. “When you watch the movies, you feel it is really happening. One way or another, it will touch your life somewhere.
Back in 2002, the movies were simply known as Nigeria’s home videos. They were popularized at first through video cassettes traded across Africa, but now Nollywood is available on satellite and cable television channels, as well as on streaming services like iRokoTV. In 2012, in response to swelling popularity in Francophone Africa, a satellite channel called Nollywood TV began offering round-the-clock movies dubbed into French. Most Nollywood movies are in English, though some are in one of Nigeria’s main ethnic languages.
Until Nollywood’s ascendance, movies made in Francophone Africa ― with grants from the French government ― dominated filmmaking on the continent. But these movies catered to the sensibilities of Western critics and viewers, and won few fans in Africa, leaving no cultural footprint.
In Nollywood, though, movies are still financed by private investors expecting a profit.
You want to do a movie? You have the script? You look immediately for the money and you shoot,” said Mahmood Ali-Balogun, a leading Nigerian filmmaker. “When you get a grant from France or the E.U., they can dictate to you where to put your camera, the fine-tuning of your script. It’s not a good model for us in Africa.
Mr. Ali-Balogun was speaking from his office in Surulere, Lagos, the birthplace of Nollywood. Film production has since moved to other cities, especially Asaba, an otherwise sleepy state capital in southeastern Nigeria. On any given day, a dozen crews can be found here ― “epic” films with ancient story lines like “Beyond the Dance” are in the works in nearby villages, while “glamour” movies about modern life make the city itself their sets.
One recent entry in the glamour category was “Okada 50,” the story of a woman and son who, after leaving their village, open a coffin business in the city and terrorize their neighbors.
Most films have budgets of about $25,000 and are shot in a week.
Once completed in Asaba, the movies find their way to every corner of Africa, released in the original English, dubbed into French or African languages, and sometimes readapted, repackaged and often pirated for local audiences. Many movies are also propelled by a symbiotic relationship with Nigeria’s Pentecostal Christianity, which pastors have exported throughout Africa.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo, pastors who visited Nigeria years ago returned with videocassettes and showed the films in church to teach Christian lessons and attract new members, said Katrien Pype, a Belgian anthropologist at the University of Leuven who has written about the phenomenon.
Today in Kinshasa, the Congolese capital, Nollywood permeates mainstream culture. Local women copy the fashion, makeup and hairstyles of the actresses; local musicians grumble at the popularity of Nigerian imports, like Don Jazzy and the P-Square twins.
P-Square。
Trésor Baka, a Congolese dubber who translates Nollywood movies into the local language, Lingala, said the films are popular because “Nigeria has succeeded in reconciling modernity and their ancient ways, their culture and traditions.



Oui,” Charlotte Gainsbourg answered her mother, Jane Birkin, with a giggle.
Jane Birkin)。
It was a little like they were using the telephone for the first time. They last spoke, if you’re curious, about a week ago.
But we text a lot,” Ms. Gainsbourg said.
We do,” Ms. Birkin agreed. “But I must get into Skype. Does it work on a mobile?
Oh yeah it does,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “It’s just you’re always ugly, but it does work.
Well, if I’m ugly, it’s normal,” Ms. Birkin said.
They both howled with laughter. But there is something to the notion that as poised as they are, this mother and daughter ― celebrated for their acting, their singing, their innate style ― aren’t afraid of being ugly when it comes to their art. “I hate films when I have to pretend to be pretty,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “It’s the thing that makes me lose confidence. The pretend is too much. So each time I have dark circles, that’s what I enjoy the most.
Ms. Birkin, who first came on the scene with a nude cameo in Michelangelo Antonioni’s 1966 film “Blow-Up,” seemed admiring. “I’ve realized this about you, and I wish I had realized it about myself earlier on,” she said. “When the whole point, when the only point, is that you’re pretty, then it’s horrifying. I’ve done a few with just being really pretty, and it’s very, very stressful. It would be much nicer to have not given a hoot, and I don’t give a hoot anymore now, but it’s a bit late.
Ms. Birkin, 69, who is British-born but made her career in France, was speaking from Paris in the phone interview, while Ms. Gainsbourg, 44, was in New York. As actresses, they share a fearlessness that takes them to extremes. Beginning Friday, Jan. 29, the Film Society of Lincoln Center will underscore that quality in presenting “Jane and Charlotte Forever,” a series of 19 films spanning five decades that also highlights the work of daring directors like Jacques Rivette, Agnès Varda, Jacques Doillon and Lars von Trier.
That appetite for risk is what Dennis Lim, director of programming at the Film Society, is most drawn to. “They’re very adventurous actresses, and they’re actresses that understand the uses of provocation,” he said. “I also like how they’re loyal. They know how to be muses.
Opening night will include screenings of “Antichrist,” Mr. von Trier’s graphic film starring Ms. Gainsbourg and Willem Dafoe as a couple grieving over their infant’s death, and “La Pirate,” Mr. Doillon’s career-changing film for Ms. Birkin, who plays a woman whose female ex-lover is trying to persuade her to resume their affair.
The series also includes an exhibition of photographs by Kate Barry, Ms. Birkin’s daughter with John Barry, the British composer. Ms. Gainsbourg recalled that Ms. Barry, who died in a fall two years ago, was “always putting makeup on me, dressing me like a doll” when they were children.
Then, of course, there’s the singer, songwriter, actor and director Serge Gainsbourg, Charlotte’s father, who died in 1991 but still lives on in Ms. Gainsbourg’s handsomely chiseled face and in Ms. Birkin’s voice when she sings his songs. The Film Society will screen his “Charlotte for Ever,” which touches on incest and pedophilia and features a 14-year-old Ms. Gainsbourg, and his “Je t’aime moi non plus” (“I Love You Me Neither”), which stars a 30-year-old Ms. Birkin as a boyish young waitress to whom a gay male truck driver becomes deeply attracted.
In another bit of familial overlap, both Ms. Birkin and Ms. Gainsbourg appear in Ms. Varda’s “Kung Fu Master,” in which Ms. Birkin, who wrote and pitched the story upon which the film is based, plays a mother who falls in love with her daughter’s 14-year-old classmate. (The boy, Mathieu Demy, is played by Ms. Varda’s son. That was Ms. Birkin’s idea.
Agnès Varda said, ‘Well, if you take Mathieu, then I want Charlotte,’” Ms. Birkin recalled. “I didn’t think Charlotte would say yes. But we wanted her bedroom. It was all shot in our house, and then the kind girl said yes. It was just too much for her to have her bedroom taken up and put another girl in her bed. I said to Charlotte: ‘You know, you can’t get out of it with Agnès. If you said yes, you can’t go back on it.’ She said she wouldn’t. But I didn’t feel she was enjoying herself enormously.
Ms. Gainsbourg’s response was swift: “No, I wasn’t. But she was living in our house for a year.
She said she still treasured the time spent in her childhood watching Ms. Birkin on film shoots. It was “as if I could watch her with a microscope,” she said. “There was something so privileged about just being able to put my gaze on her.
She also recalled the first time she saw “Je t’aime moi non plus,” on a little television in her room. “I was maybe 18,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “It wasn’t a lot of time before my father died, and so I was able to call him up ― I don’t know if I told you! I didn’t. But it was such a revelation because I had waited so long. I don’t know ― I loved every single thing about it. And that was the first step of watching her as an adult.
And of course, Ms. Birkin watched Ms. Gainsbourg develop as an actress as a girl. She said she was captivated by her natural ability: “She used to put down her comic book and be able to burst into tears across the garden and then go back to her comic book,” Ms. Birkin said. “It’s extremely focused, her work ― she’s always believable. I don’t know whether one could say that about a lot of other actors. If she’s a heroin addict, she’s a heroin addict. If she’s a mother of three, she’s a mother of three. If she’s a virgin, she’s a virgin.
In the films she’s doing, she’s found her way to liberty. She can play all these different parts and still cook dinner for the children.
Ms. Gainsbourg has three children with the French actor and director Yvan Attal. And his comedy “My Wife Is an Actress,” which stars him and Ms. Gainsbourg, is included in the series. It is yet another example of life’s imitating art. That may not be the case with her ravaged performances in Mr. von Trier’s boundary-pushing films, but for Ms. Gainsbourg, “exploring sick things are the most exciting.
When she was shooting “Antichrist,” she recalled, Ms. Birkin was the only person she could confide in. “It was in a humorous way, because it was so extreme that I had a lot to laugh about,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. “I could go into every detail and not be ashamed about any of it.
Every detail was a delight!” Ms. Birkin said.
The freedom that Ms. Gainsbourg experiences with her mother, she said, helped her believe that she could take on “Antichrist.” Her parents could be wild, but as a child, she said, she did not suffer or feel shame. “I’m just thinking about my children and how far can I go without being a big problem for them,” she said. “I think I am a problem for them.
Even though Ms. Gainsbourg is the epitome of gangly chic, she hasn’t always felt comfortable in her skin. Her mother, she noted, is literally a fashion icon: “You’re always on mood boards.
The thing is, growing up, I was very, very conscious that I didn’t have the look,” Ms. Gainsbourg said. Ms. Birkin laughed, but Ms. Gainsbourg added: “No, I’m not kidding. I felt so ― not ugly, but just so ordinary in comparison.
On a motherly note, Ms. Birkin had the last word: “You did well to be just yourself and not to try and be like anyone else, because there’s nobody else that looks like you, and there’s nobody else that performs like you.



The author, most recently, of “Blue” says Alex Haley was her mentor. “We both wrote late at night, and when my phone rang at 3 a.m., I always knew it was him, making sure I was working.
Which books are currently on your night stand?
The Girl on the Train,” by Paula Hawkins, and a recent John Grisham, “Gray Mountain.
Gray Mountain)。
What’s the last great book you read?
All the Light We Cannot See,” by Anthony Doerr, and “The Nightingale,” by Kristin Hannah ― those are both World War II books, which I love. And the most recent, “The Power of I Am,” by Joel Osteen.
The Power of I Am)。
What genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid?
I like books that inspire me in my own life. I don’t like depressing books, or books and stories where terrible things happen to children. I won’t read either.
What moves you most in a work of literature?
How well it’s written, how real it is, how well the story grabs me and keeps my interest, and how touching it is.
What’s the last book that made you cry?
The most recent one I was writing (I always cry when I write sad scenes).
The last book that made you laugh?
I love Joel Osteen’s books; they inspire me, and he also has a great sense of humor, in order to deliver his message with a light touch, and occasionally makes me laugh out loud.
The last book that made you furious?
One by an author I used to like, and tried to read again. The author unexpectedly killed a child at the end with no warning. I absolutely hate that!
Tell us about your favorite fairy tale.
Any fairy tale with a happy ending.
Tell us about your favorite poem.
I used to like Edna St. Vincent Millay (“First Fig,” “The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver”) when I was very young, but today I find her poems to be somewhat depressing.
And the best movie adaptation of a book?
I always think the books are better than the movies.
What kind of reader were you as a child?
I was an avid reader and read constantly. I read mostly in French, my first language, and loved “The Little Prince,” by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, but also loved “The Secret Garden,” by Frances Hodgson Burnett; “Little Women,” by Louisa May Alcott; and “Eloise,” by Kay Thompson, for how naughty she was.
Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain?
Piglet)。
If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be?
What author, living or dead, would you most like to meet, and what would you like to know?
Alex Haley (author of “Roots”) was a dear friend, and my mentor early in my career. He predicted I would do well, and I thought he was crazy. He was a remarkable human being. We both wrote late at night, and when my phone rang at 3 a.m., I always knew it was him, making sure I was working. I miss him greatly and would love to see him again (rather than an author I don’t know).
Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?
I do remember the book, but it would be unkind to mention it. I’m a very disciplined person, so I finish a book even if I hate it, and always wish I didn’t waste the time! I always hope it will get better right to the very end.
Of all the books you’ve written, which is your favorite or the most personally meaningful?
The most personally meaningful is the one I wrote about my son Nick, “His Bright Light,” who died at 19. He was bipolar all his life and committed suicide. I wrote the book to honor him, and help parents of similar children. The favorite one I’ve written is always the one I’m currently writing or just finished.
Whom would you want to write your life story?
No one ― ever. Perhaps my children, who know me better than anyone. But a life written about by another person, viewed from the outside, is never accurate. Whatever happened in my life is history and should remain private, and not shared with the world. I prefer that people come to know me through the books I’ve written. I have no desire to see my real life written about, and hope it never will be.
A lot of my own work. I have too little time to read, and only read when I take a break from writing in the summer for a few weeks. The rest of the time, I’m writing, and I never read other people’s work when I’m writing.
Which writers ― novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets ― working today do you admire most?
I wish I had more time to read new novelists, see plays and read magazines, but my new publishing schedule of six books a year keeps me very busy. As I’ve said, I wish I did!



There are downsides to being a longtime action-movie hero, as Sylvester Stallone has found out: He’s had four back operations, two shoulder surgeries and a spinal fusion, that one after he fractured his neck filming “The Expendables.” Over the years, expectations of his assumed athletic prowess grew so high that he stopped wanting to play golf or basketball with anyone. When opinions about his acting abilities hit their nadir, around the time he won a Razzie for worst actor of the century in 2000, he half-agreed with his harshest detractors.
When you become synonymous with blunt-force trauma,” Mr. Stallone, 69, said in an interview here, his basso profundo voice sounding like it was rising from the earth’s core, “you’re not really leaving anyone with thought-provoking aftershocks of your performance.
All of which made an unexpected upside of devoting a career to playing he-men especially sweet. Mr. Stallone’s Oscar nomination, for his supporting performance in “Creed” ― the seventh film in the “Rocky” franchise, which won him his last Oscar nominations four decades ago ― has left him, by all outward showings, enormously grateful and glowingly proud, if slightly befuddled.
For somewhat of a borderline misanthrope, this is incredible,” Mr. Stallone said. “It’s the pinnacle of my life, professionally. It’s so miraculous.
Three and a half weeks earlier, he had collected a Golden Globe for his performance in “Creed,” a win that left him so dumbfounded that he failed to notice the standing ovation of the crowd. He had also failed, to his lasting dismay, to thank the film’s writer and director, Ryan Coogler, or his co-star Michael B. Jordan, which had prompted tut-tutting from Samuel L. Jackson, among many others, on Twitter.
When Sam Jackson called me out on it, I totally agreed,” Mr. Stallone said. “Forgetting to thank the director? Believe me. That’s the last thing I would’ve done.
If Mr. Coogler and Mr. Jordan were miffed, they hid it well. “I love the guy!” Mr. Jordan exclaimed at an after-party that night. Then he, Mr. Coogler and Mr. Coogler’s fiancée headed for the airport, and Mr. Stallone’s private plane, which spirited them across the Atlantic for the premiere of “Creed” in London. “Sly was cracking us up the whole flight man,” Mr. Coogler recalled. “It’ll go down in history, something to tell my grandkids.
By week’s end, the awards news shifted to the homogeneity of the Oscar acting nominations, which all went to white actors. That Mr. Stallone received the lone nomination for “Creed,” a film written and directed by a black man and largely about black characters, only fueled the controversy, making Mr. Stallone’s joy over the recognition bittersweet.
This guy here deserved it before I deserved it ― this is his baby, and I just hung on for dear life,” Mr. Stallone said, referring to Mr. Coogler. “When he brought ‘Creed’ to life, he brought me to life.
As talk of boycotting the ceremony circulated, Mr. Stallone said that he asked Mr. Coogler whether he should not attend the ceremony. (He recounted this story again at the Oscar nominees’ luncheon on Monday.) “I really wanted to get his opinion on what he thought my behavior should be,” Mr. Stallone said. “He said, ‘You should go, enjoy yourself and represent the film.
In a phone interview, Mr. Coogler fell silent when questions about the protest, #OscarsSoWhite, were posed, but said he was thrilled for Mr. Stallone. “Any good thing that comes to Sly, I smile ear to ear,” Mr. Coogler said. “The movie was such a family affair. Whenever anything comes for it, it feels like a piece for all of us.
For this interview Mr. Stallone, sartorially impeccable, his face looking as hewn from granite as ever, went to the five-star Peninsula Hotel. The place was impeccable, and, after sitting down, Mr. Stallone, who comes across as self-aware, self-effacing and a little silly, slid a plate of macarons and petit fours across the coffee table. “I bought these for you,” he deadpanned. “Very sweet of me, I know.
He had met Mr. Coogler, who he described as “a full-fledged genius, a savant,” three and a half years ago, before Mr. Coogler’s first feature, “Fruitvale Station,” came out.
The younger director came up with the idea for “Creed” when his own father, a devout “Rocky” fan, fell gravely ill (he has since recovered). Mr. Coogler wanted to tell the story of the illegitimate son of Rocky Balboa’s old boxing foe and friend, Apollo Creed. Set in present-day Philadelphia, the film would explore the city’s vibrant black culture through the eyes of Adonis Creed, who seeks out an aged and ailing Rocky to train him.
Despite landing a meeting with Mr. Stallone, Mr. Coogler did not think for a moment that the storied actor would agree to the film. So, en route to Mr. Stallone’s office, Mr. Coogler stopped at a Best Buy to get a Blu-ray of “Rocky II” for Mr. Stallone to sign. The movie was his dad’s favorite, and Mr. Coogler figured he would never see the star again.
Indeed, Mr. Stallone was wholly unconvinced, at least at first, having been happy with the series’ apparent final installment, “Rocky Balboa” (2006), which he starred in and directed, receiving respectable reviews. “A recipe for premier disaster,” was how Mr. Stallone viewed yet another Rocky film. Yet there was a confidence and buoyancy in Mr. Coogler that he intrinsically recognized. “He’s unspoiled, he’s unfettered with material success, and he’s hungry,” Mr. Stallone said. “He reminded me of some other brash young guy in 1975.
One plot point (spoiler alert) in the “Creed” script that gave Mr. Stallone extreme pause, though, was Rocky’s cancer diagnosis. Mr. Stallone didn’t like it and didn’t think his audience would either, but Mr. Coogler would not budge. Mr. Stallone said he equivocated until his wife, Jennifer Flavin, called him out. “She said: ‘You’re afraid to do something you’ve never done before. That’s called being a coward,’” Mr. Stallone said, leaning back in his chair, and laughing. “She was right.
To prepare for his role, Mr. Stallone hired a full-time acting coach, Ivana Chubbuck; his skill set, he said, “had basically atrophied.” When production began, he was still paralyzed by the devastation of losing his oldest son, Sage, who had a fatal heart attack in the summer of 2012 at 36. (Mr. Stallone has a second son, also from his first marriage, and three daughters with Ms. Flavin.
He figured his grief would be off limits, but Ms. Chubbuck forced him to drill deep. “You just feel responsible,” he said, of Sage’s death. “That you weren’t there. Here you save all these fictitious people, and you can’t even save your son.” Once that floodgate opened, he said, his emotions streamed out, shifting both his performance, and his mourning. “It helped,” Mr. Stallone said. “I can talk about it now. There’s some solace in that.
He has also found deep solace in the acclaim his performance drew from Hollywood’s establishment. Irwin Winkler, who has been producing films with Mr. Stallone from the first “Rocky” on, said seeing Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg leaping to their feet to applaud Mr. Stallone’s Golden Globe win was especially gratifying.
It would be a great moment for any actor, and certainly it was for Sly,” Mr. Winkler said. “I don’t think they gave him respect for the last 40 years.
Looking back, Mr. Stallone said he’s not sure how much respect he deserved anyway. Appearing in action films became, for him, almost like an adrenaline addiction, he said, “an endurance contest that doesn’t challenge your soul, at all.
The kudos he is receiving now makes him wish that he had pursued roles that involved showing vulnerability, which he did to glowing reviews in “Cop Land,” in 1997, and of course, in “Creed.
Now I look at it in the cold light of day, and they’re right, quite honestly,” he said, of his critics of yore. “I think the world could have lived without ‘The Expendables’ without spinning out of orbit. I really do.



Tech companies have spent years developing better, cheaper devices to immerse people in digital worlds. Yet they are still figuring out how to make virtual reality the kind of technology that people cannot live without.
So for inspiration, they are turning to science fiction.
At Oculus, a leading virtual reality company, a copy of the popular sci-fi novel “Ready Player One” is handed out to new hires. Magic Leap, a secretive augmented reality start-up, has hired science fiction and fantasy writers. The name of Microsoft’s HoloLens headset is a salute to the holodeck, a simulation room from “Star Trek.
Like many other people working in the tech space, I’m not a creative person,” said Palmer Luckey, 23, a co-founder of Oculus, which was bought by Facebook for $2 billion in 2014. “It’s nice that science fiction exists because these are really creative people figuring out what the ultimate use of any technology might be. They come up with a lot of incredible ideas.
Those ideas are especially relevant now, as some of the biggest technology companies are nearing a major push of a new generation of virtual reality products. In the next few months, virtual reality headsets from Oculus, Sony and HTC go on sale. Venture capital money is pouring into the industry.
But how people will interact with the imaginary worlds remains largely unknown territory. And that is where science fiction comes in. Science fiction is shaping the language companies are using to market the technology, influencing the types of experiences made for the headsets and even defining long-term goals for developers.
Science fiction, in simplest terms, sets you free,” said Ralph Osterhout, chief executive of the Osterhout Design Group, which builds augmented reality glasses.
Perhaps no fictional work resonates more throughout the industry these days than “Ready Player One,” written by Ernest Cline and now being made into a movie by Steven Spielberg.
Much of the action in the book takes place inside the Oasis, a global virtual reality network. Characters in the network attend school, socialize and take part in a high-stakes treasure hunt. Through virtual reality, they can inhabit the perspectives of actors in classic movies.
The book was published in 2011, around the time Mr. Luckey began building an early prototype of the Oculus headset. Mr. Luckey said he appreciated Mr. Cline’s portrayals of characters controlling their avatars through full-body suits rather than plugging “Matrix”-style cables into their brains.
One of the things I like about ‘Ready Player One’ is all of the depictions in the book are pretty feasible,” Mr. Luckey said. “None of it is crazy, far-out tech.
Oculus gave out 3,000 copies of the book to attendees of an Oculus developer conference last year. For good measure, Oculus named the meeting rooms at its headquarters after famous fictional versions of virtual reality, including the holodeck, the Oasis and the Matrix, from the movie of the same name and, before that, William Gibson’s “Neuromancer.
Mr. Cline said he wrote “Ready Player One” partly because he could not figure out why virtual reality had not taken off in the real world.
I think that was the same impulse that drove Palmer,” said Mr. Cline, who has visited Oculus several times to speak to employees. “Growing up with ‘Neuromancer’ and Max Headroom, it had the same effect on me as a writer as it did on businesspeople.
Techies do not need any encouragement from their employers to read or watch science fiction, long a pillar of geek culture. Throw a rock in Silicon Valley and you are likely to hit a software engineer who can cite how long it took the Millennium Falcon to make the Kessel Run in “Star Wars.” (Less than 12 parsecs, according to Han Solo, whose use of a term for distance ― one parsec equals about 3.26 light-years ― rather than time has been the subject of entire articles.) The genre has influenced many corners of technology, from smartphones to robotics to space exploration.
But there is something unique about the interplay between science fiction and virtual reality, a technology that is essentially an instrument for fooling people into believing they are someplace ― and often someone ― they are not. Virtual reality is a medium, like television or video games, that can borrow liberally from the virtual worlds experienced by fictional characters.
Magic Leap, based in Dania Beach, Fla., and which counts Google as one of its big investors, has gone even further than most companies by hiring three science fiction and fantasy writers on staff. Its most famous sci-fi recruit is Neal Stephenson, who depicted the virtual world of the Metaverse in his seminal 1992 novel “Snow Crash.
In an interview, Mr. Stephenson ― whose title is chief futurist ― declined to say what he was working on at Magic Leap, describing it as one of several “content projects” underway at the company.
More broadly, Mr. Stephenson said science fiction books and movies are often useful within tech companies for rallying employees around a shared vision.
My theory is that science fiction can actually have some value in that it gets everyone on the same page without the kind of expensive and tedious process of PowerPoint,” he said. But the influence of the genre within tech companies is “surprising and mysterious to me as well,” he added.
There is a regular theme in science fiction that its fans in tech talk less about, though: the dystopian aspects of virtual reality. Addiction, disconnection from relationships in the real world and alienation from the environment are often side effects in narratives about virtual reality. It’s hard to make that into a selling point for the technology.
Entrepreneurs are optimistic and upbeat by nature, which is why I enjoy hanging around with them,” Mr. Stephenson said. “They’ve got an admirable ability to completely ignore the more dystopian elements you’re talking about and see the cool stuff and positive potential of where it might go.
Of course, authors and moviemakers get to overlook details of their own ― like the tough technological challenges that real tech companies face.
You never have to reboot the damned thing” in sci-fi books, said Genevieve Bell, a cultural anthropologist who works at Intel and has written about the interplay between technology and science fiction. “The mechanics are less interesting to most science fiction writers than the experience.
Sometimes science fiction plants seeds in the minds of inventors that take years to sprout. The holographic chess game that Chewbacca played on a tabletop aboard the Millennium Falcon was pretty far-out in the 1970s, when Jeri Ellsworth saw it in the original “Star Wars.” It took several decades before technology caught up.
In 2013, Ms. Ellsworth’s start-up, CastAR, gave the first public demonstration of the company’s augmented reality glasses, which overlay digital imagery on the user’s view of the real world.
By now, the experience shown in the demonstration should come as no surprise ― the glasses enabled the person wearing them to play a holographic chess game on a tabletop.
It’s something I’ve been dreaming about my entire life,” Ms. Ellsworth said.



More than 80 years after his death, Rabindranath Tagore, the Bengali poet and Nobel laureate, still has a huge following in Asia. Outside India and Bangladesh, perhaps nowhere is his legacy more alive than in China, where his works have been part of the middle-school curriculum for decades.
This month, to commemorate the 155th anniversary of his birth, the People’s Publishing House will release “The Complete Works of Tagore,” the first direct translation of his entire output from Bengali into Chinese. The project took a team of translators nearly six years.
But Tagore has also been at the center of a controversy here, after another, more racy new translation of some of his poems by the writer Feng Tang, called “Stray Birds,” set off a storm of criticism. The furor was so intense that the Zhejiang Wenyi Publishing House pulled the volume from stores.
Most Chinese grew up thinking Tagore was mild and romantic, all stars, gardens and flowers,” Mr. Feng said in a recent interview in his Beijing studio. “So with my translation, many people felt like their Tagore, the Tagore from their childhood textbooks, had been challenged.
Yu Qing, deputy chief editor of the People’s Publishing House, said, “In terms of the top foreign authors, Tagore may just be the most popular and most widely translated foreign writer in China.
Unlike other popular foreign authors here like Tolstoy or Mark Twain, Tagore actually visited China and spent time with the pioneers of contemporary Chinese literature,” Mr. Yu added.
As the first non-Westerner to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature, in 1913, Tagore was also the “lone voice from Asia in an intellectual milieu that was almost entirely dominated by Western institutions and individuals,” wrote Pankaj Mishra in his 2012 book, “From the Ruins of Empire.” Translations of the poet’s work by rising young intellectuals like Mao Dun, Zhang Zhenduo and Chen Duxiu, a co-founder of the Chinese Communist Party, began to appear in Chinese magazines.
The 44-year-old Mr. Feng, a popular novelist, said he had been looking for a translation project and remembered reading the collection of short poems about man and nature in “Stray Birds” when he was young.
But not long after his translation was published last summer, critiques began to appear online and in the Chinese news media, including People’s Daily. Readers and scholars excoriated Mr. Feng for blaspheming the beloved poet.
The cultural critic Raymond Zhou, writing in the state-owned China Daily, called Mr. Feng’s translation “a vulgar selfie of hormone saturated innuendo.” Even the Indian news media chimed in, with one commentator writing that Mr. Feng had made a “mockery of Tagore.
The anger mostly focused on three of the 326 poems, all of which Mr. Feng, like most earlier translators, based on English versions. In one, which was translated into English by Tagore himself, the poet wrote: “The world puts off its mask of vastness to its lover. It becomes small as one song, as one kiss of the eternal.
By contrast, Mr. Feng’s translation in Chinese reads: “The world unzipped his pants in front of his lover. Long as a French kiss, slim as a line of a poem.
Mr. Feng continues to stand by his translation.
My only intention was to capture the aesthetics of Tagore’s poems,” he said. “When I translate, I’m a writer. I don’t need to know the context. I just want to do things as freely and as creatively as possible.
Even with the uproar, many were perhaps even more surprised by the announcement in December from the Zhejiang Wenyi Publishing House that it would halt sales of the book and review the translation. It is unclear whether the book will be returned to shelves. Reached by telephone, the company declined to comment.
I think the fact that there was this controversy in the first place shows the special place Tagore holds in the hearts of Chinese readers,” said Dong Youchen, chief editor and translator of the “The Complete Works of Tagore.” “He wrote with an Eastern sensibility that Chinese people even today can connect with.
Then again, some say conveying the essence of Tagore’s works through translation may simply be a near-impossible task.
Poetry is, of course, notoriously difficult to translate,” Amartya Sen wrote in The New York Review of Books in 1997. “And anyone who knows Tagore’s poems in their original Bengali cannot feel satisfied with any of the translations.



Live at Madison Square Garden,” Louis C.K.
The Basement Tapes Complete: The Bootleg Series Vol. 11,” Steve Berkowitz, Jan Haust and Jeff Rosen, compilation producers; Peter J.
Shostakovich: Under Stalin’s Shadow ― Symphony No.



MANITOWOC, Wis. ―― In the tourism office here, where workers are accustomed to cheery inquiries about Manitowoc County’s best jogging paths and beach views, the questions have suddenly turned dark: How could you possibly promote tourism in such a corrupt town? Why would anyone visit here?
Fury ― by telephone, email and on social media ― has also flooded the Manitowoc County Sheriff’s Department, the Manitowoc City Police Department, Manitowoc City Hall and pretty much anywhere else with the name Manitowoc attached to it.
Even the Manitowoc County Historical Society’s executive director, Amy Meyer, has taken to answering the phones so that volunteers ― better prepared for gentler inquiries about the region’s history of shipbuilding and its claims to creating the ice cream sundae ― do not have to hear “all that yelling, cussing and swearing.” A recent post on the historical society’s Facebook page read, “Too bad your history includes ruining two innocent peoples’ lives.
The release last month of a Netflix documentary series, “Making a Murderer,” about a decade-old murder case, has upended this county of about 80,000 along Lake Michigan.
Ten years ago, when I first came here, Steven Avery, the county resident now at the center of 10 Netflix episodes over more than 10 hours, had been arrested on suspicion of murder a few days before.
Mr. Avery’s past was what drew me to Manitowoc in November 2005: For months, he had been held up in Wisconsin as a symbol of everything wrong with the justice system, having served 18 years in prison for a sexual assault that DNA evidence later linked to a different man.
After Mr. Avery was released in the sexual assault, and as he was pursuing a $36 million lawsuit against the county officials who had wrongly sent him to prison, he was charged in the murder of Teresa Halbach, a 25-year-old photographer who had come to take pictures at his family’s auto salvage yard for Auto Trader magazine.
Back then, as I drove to the county seat and along the stark, rural stretches closer to the salvage yard, I found a close-knit community in mourning over a young woman’s death and an array of Avery supporters stunned by the turn of events.
A pair of graduate student filmmakers in New York read the article I wrote and devoted the next decade to what became the Netflix series. In the end, Mr. Avery and his nephew Brendan Dassey, 16 at the time of Ms. Halbach’s death, were convicted in the killing ― an outcome that some who watched the series were convinced was one more example of the justice system’s failure.
Here, many of the people who had watched the case play out in real time with intensive local news media coverage largely considered it settled. But with a far broader audience now ravenously consuming the filmmakers’ take and raising pointed questions about whether those convicted were guilty, and whether the local authorities planted evidence and mishandled the investigation, a barrage of social media posts and calls is forcing Manitowoc to look back.
We lived through this 10 years ago,” Jason Ring, the president of the Manitowoc Area Visitor and Convention Bureau, said from a counter covered in maps and brochures.
We made our judgment, and the trial came to an end, and locally most people were in support of that,” Mr. Ring said. “Now it’s back ― by no choosing or no doing of anyone in this community.
So that’s the first point of injustice,” he added. “That we have to live through it again.
In downtown Manitowoc, the county seat, the talkative, curious people I had come upon a decade earlier were no longer surprised ― or the least bit pleased ― to see yet another reporter. Many avoided any talk about “Making a Murderer,” or simply spotted my notebook and walked away. The mayor declined to be interviewed. Business owners refused to discuss it: One said she had read online about a call for a protest in the town, and she was worried about safety.
Look, we lived this whole thing like a juror,” Suszanne Fox, who lives not far from here, told me as she ate a burger at the Fat Seagull. “He was guilty as sin.
Many viewers of “Making a Murderer” do not agree. Hundreds of thousands of people signed petitions asking President Obama to pardon Mr. Avery and Mr. Dassey, to which the White House has responded that the president cannot issue pardons in state cases. And Gov. Scott Walker has long pledged to issue no pardons while in office.
The series left viewers with unrelenting questions: Did Mr. Avery’s civil lawsuit for his wrongful sexual assault conviction motivate the Manitowoc County authorities to plant evidence against him in the second case, for murder? How was it that an old sample of Mr. Avery’s blood, which was found in the victim’s car, appeared to be tampered with while in the care of the authorities? Should Mr. Dassey, at his young age and with a limited intellect, have been questioned alone by investigators? Was his appointed lawyer working against his cause?
But Ken Kratz, who prosecuted the cases against Mr. Avery and Mr. Dassey, said the series was one-sided and omitted significant pieces of evidence, including DNA from Mr. Avery on the latch under the hood of Ms. Halbach’s Toyota RAV4, found in the Averys’ auto salvage yard.
It’s not a documentary at all; it’s an advocacy piece,” Mr. Kratz said in a telephone interview from New York, where he said he was being put up at the Waldorf Astoria while taking part in television newsmagazine interviews in the wake of the Netflix series.
Since the trial, Mr. Kratz went into private practice after a text messaging scandal in 2010 and a prescription drug addiction in which, he said, he “pretty much lost everything.” His business line now rings endlessly. “I guess it’s a concerted effort to shut down my office,” he said.
Sheriff Robert C. Hermann of Manitowoc County, who was the undersheriff at the time of the Avery case, said his office had gotten emails and voice mail messages calling the department corrupt.
It’s not how Manitowoc wants to be put on the map,” Sheriff Hermann said. He said he had few regrets, though he wished, given all he knows now, that only officials from a nearby sheriff’s office, without Manitowoc’s perceived conflicts, had held any role in the investigation.
The filmmakers, Laura Ricciardi and Moira Demos, say they believe their series accurately portrayed the essential arguments the prosecutors made. The point, they said in a telephone interview, was to look at the Manitowoc cases as a window into the American justice system.
We have empathy for Manitowoc because we know that people have been reaching out in unkind ways and posting things about the city and the county,” Ms. Ricciardi said. “That’s an unfortunate response, because we have always wanted the series to be constructive, not destructive.
Mr. Avery, now 53, and Mr. Dassey, now 26, have not seen the series, their lawyers said. Prisoners do not get Netflix. But as Mr. Dassey awaits a federal court decision on claims that his confession was coerced and that he had a right to a lawyer who would mount a defense, Netflix viewers have barraged him with letters of support, said his lawyer, Laura Nirider of the Center on Wrongful Convictions of Youth at Northwestern University.
Center on Wrongful Convictions of Youth)。
“He is incredibly hopeful for the first time that when people hear the name Brendan Dassey, they don’t think of a murderer, they think of someone who has been wronged,” she said.
And a new lawyer, Kathleen T. Zellner, well known for taking on wrongful conviction cases, has since signed on to handle Mr. Avery’s next legal step.
At the auto salvage yard, along dead-end Avery Road, tiny, jittery dogs watch from a green trailer where Dolores Avery, Mr. Avery’s mother, says she is too tired for more interviews. Years ago, I sat with her, her husband and a brother in the living room here as they insisted that Mr. Avery was being railroaded for a second time.
Standing in her doorway this month, Ms. Avery, a constant presence in the series, said she hoped people now saw “the crooked things the county has done” to her family.
But all the renewed talk, the calls for interviews from around the world? “I’m too old for this,” she said. “It’s too much.
Recently, tourists have been spotted on the property, with its row after row of forgotten, snow-topped cars, stopping in front of the yellow and black Avery’s Auto Salvage & 24 Hour Towing sign to snap selfies.



During a shoot for the Showtime comedy series “House of Lies” last month, Don Cheadle sat outside a cafe in Old Havana, puffing on a fat cigar and clinking glasses with three compadres.
It was a novel scene ― an American actor filming an American TV show on a Cuban street ― and one that, until last month, would have been illegal under the United States’s economic embargo.
But regulations published by the Treasury Department on Jan. 26 now allow Americans to shoot scripted movies and shows in Cuba for the first time in half a century. The rules opened the door to American projects ― which could include scenes for the next “Fast & Furious” movie and an Ethan Hawke film ― and to collaboration between Hollywood and the island’s underfunded film sector.
The world just got bigger because Cuba has become accessible,” said Matthew Carnahan, creator of “House of Lies.
As a location, Cuba was inspiring, if challenging, he said, but added, “I’m dreaming up reasons to go back.
A stream of American filmmakers needing to hire Cuban equipment and crews would be a boon to the country’s independent production industry, which sprouted in the late 1990s as digital technology made filmmaking more accessible and state money for movies ran dry.
Some Cuban filmmakers worry, though, that their government will open its arms to Hollywood while continuing to give its own filmmakers the cold shoulder. Independent production companies in Cuba operate in a legal limbo, getting little or no funding from the state and often struggling to get their movies past the censors.
It’s great that people from Hollywood want to come to Cuba, but it’s caught us at a bad moment,” said Carlos Lechuga, a Cuban director. “We have stories to tell, and right now we don’t feel that we can do that.
The thaw between the United States and Cuba in 2014 prompted a swell of inquiries from Americans eager to shoot there. The next “Fast & Furious” installment may be partly shot in Cuba, a spokeswoman for its studio, Universal Pictures, said, adding that the company “is currently seeking approval from the United States and Cuban governments.
And Cuban filmmakers have been fielding inquiries. “There isn’t a day that I am not meeting with a potential client from the United States,” said Oscar Ernesto Ortega, 29, whose El Central Producciones produces music videos, commercials and documentaries for clients like the Puerto Rican band Calle 13 and Red Bull Media House from offices in Miami and Havana.
Boris Crespo, founder of BIC Producciones, in Havana, said he had been working flat out for the past year, providing production services for Conan O’Brien’s four-day visit to Cuba last year and the History channel’s “Top Gear,” which filmed an episode in Cuba in January.
Mr. Carnahan, who worked with Island Film, another Havana production company, said he was struck by the “passionate” crew and the quality of Cuban actors. (The “House of Lies” shoot was planned before the new regulations went into effect, so producers had to get a license from the Treasury Department.
What Cuba is missing, he said, are decent cellphone connections, fast Internet access and even “basic things ― hammers ― things that we don’t give much thought to.
And the process of procuring shooting permits was extremely slow, he said.
Mr. Crespo said that the state-funded Cuban Institute of Cinematic Art and Industry “drowns in its own bureaucracy.
Some Cuban filmmakers worry that American producers will steer clear of controversial themes in order to get permission to film from Cuban cultural authorities, who require all filmmakers to submit a synopsis or script of their project. Mr. Carnahan said that the “House of Lies” script was reviewed by the Cuban culture ministry, but that the authorities requested no changes and had “a sense of humor about the material,” which ribbed Cuban bureaucracy.
But Cuban filmmakers said the authorities were intolerant of works that touched on issues like the early treatment of H.I.V.-positive Cubans or the culture of citizens spying on one another, topics that have been covered in their films.
Mr. Lechuga said that his first feature, “Melaza,” about a destitute former sugar-producing town, which was shown at the Havana film festival in 2012 and won an independent critics’ prize, was not released in Cuban theaters for nearly a year, and then only in one cinema.
The government doesn’t mind if you shoot ‘Fast & Furious’ here, but it doesn’t want the local industry to make movies about our reality,” he said.
Lázaro González González, whose documentary about cross-dressing performers, “Máscaras” (2014), has had a very limited release in Cuba, said he hoped the new rules would make it easier to distribute work in the United States.
Currently, only a few organizations, like the Vermont nonprofit Americas Media Initiative, distribute Cuban independent films in the United States. Broader, commercial releases would generate more income, Mr. González said.
Claudia Calviño, executive producer at Producciones de la 5ta Avenida, said she was disappointed that Americans, so far, did not seem interested in co-productions. Her company has been involved in a handful of such films with European producers, like “Hotel Nueva Isla” (2014), a feature-length portrait of life in an abandoned hotel that she produced with El Viaje Films of Spain. She said no American filmmaker had asked what 5ta Avenida was working on or talked about developing joint projects.
Still, the détente has spurred exchanges. During Havana’s film festival in December, a delegation of actors, directors and writers organized by the Sundance Institute’s feature film program offered workshops on screenwriting, production, documentary editing and scoring for film.
Ethan Hawke, who was part of the group, told reporters at the time that he wanted to film an adaptation of Tennessee Williams’s “Camino Real.” He confirmed his plans in a statement to The New York Times, and said he been scouting Havana.
Michelle Satter, director of the Sundance feature film program, said the détente was a chance to exchange ideas with, and help train, the next generation of Cuban filmmakers.
We’re listening,” she said by telephone from Los Angeles. “We want to hear these stories.
Mr. Carnahan said that he was pondering a Cuban project ― to improve access to equipment, say, or to help them tighten up scripts.
And there were plenty of stories in Cuba, he said.
It’s so interesting there right now,” he said, “I wish I could just sit there with a bag of popcorn and watch.



Back in the 1960s there was a briefly popular wave of “futurism,” of books and articles attempting to predict the changes ahead. One of the best-known, and certainly the most detailed, of these works was Herman Kahn and Anthony J. Wiener’s “The Year 2000” (1967), which offered, among other things, a systematic list of technological innovations Kahn and Wiener considered “very likely in the last third of the 20th century.
Unfortunately, the two authors were mostly wrong. They didn’t miss much, foreseeing developments that recognizably correspond to all the main elements of the information technology revolution, including smartphones and the Internet. But a majority of their predicted innovations (“individual flying platforms”) hadn’t arrived by 2000 ― and still haven’t arrived, a decade and a half later.
The truth is that if you step back from the headlines about the latest gadget, it becomes obvious that we’ve made much less progress since 1970 ― and experienced much less alteration in the fundamentals of life ― than almost anyone expected. Why?
Robert J. Gordon, a distinguished macro­economist and economic historian at Northwestern, has been arguing for a long time against the techno-optimism that saturates our culture, with its constant assertion that we’re in the midst of revolutionary change. Starting at the height of the dot-com frenzy, he has repeatedly called for perspective: Developments in information and communication technology, he has insisted, just don’t measure up to past achievements. Specifically, he has argued that the I.T. revolution is less important than any one of the five Great Inventions that powered economic growth from 1870 to 1970: electricity, urban sanitation, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, the internal combustion engine and modern communication.
In “The Rise and Fall of American Growth,” Gordon doubles down on that theme, declaring that the kind of rapid economic growth we still consider our due, and expect to continue forever, was in fact a one-time-only event. First came the Great Inventions, almost all dating from the late 19th century. Then came refinement and exploitation of those inventions ― a process that took time, and exerted its peak effect on economic growth between 1920 and 1970. Everything since has at best been a faint echo of that great wave, and Gordon doesn’t expect us ever to see anything similar.
Is he right? My answer is a definite maybe. But whether or not you end up agreeing with Gordon’s thesis, this is a book well worth reading ― a magisterial combination of deep technological history, vivid portraits of daily life over the past six generations and careful economic analysis. Non-economists may find some of the charts and tables heavy going, but Gordon never loses sight of the real people and real lives behind those charts. This book will challenge your views about the future; it will definitely transform how you see the past.
Indeed, almost half the book is devoted to changes that took place before World War II. Others have covered this ground ― most notably Daniel Boorstin in “The Americans: The Democratic Experience.” Even knowing this literature, however, I was fascinated by Gordon’s account of the changes wrought by his Great Inventions. As he says, “Except in the rural South, daily life for every American changed beyond recognition between 1870 and 1940.” Electric lights replaced candles and whale oil, flush toilets replaced outhouses, cars and electric trains replaced horses. (In the 1880s, parts of New York’s financial district were seven feet deep in manure.
Meanwhile, backbreaking toil both in the workplace and in the home was for the most part replaced by far less onerous employment. This is a point all too often missed by economists, who tend to think only about how much purchasing power people have, not about what they have to do to get it, and Gordon does an important service by reminding us that the conditions under which men and women labor are as important as the amount they get paid.
Aside from its being an interesting story, however, why is it important to study this transformation? Mainly, Gordon suggests ― although these are my words, not his ― to provide a baseline. What happened between 1870 and 1940, he argues, and I would agree, is what real transformation looks like. Any claims about current progress need to be compared with that baseline to see how they measure up.
And it’s hard not to agree with him that nothing that has happened since is remotely comparable. Urban life in America on the eve of World War II was already recognizably modern; you or I could walk into a 1940s apartment, with its indoor plumbing, gas range, electric lights, refrigerator and telephone, and we’d find it basically functional. We’d be annoyed at the lack of television and Internet ― but not horrified or disgusted.
By contrast, urban Americans from 1940 walking into 1870-style accommodations ― which they could still do in the rural South ― were indeed horrified and disgusted. Life fundamentally improved between 1870 and 1940 in a way it hasn’t since.
Now, in 1940 many Americans were already living in what was recognizably the modern world, but many others weren’t. What happened over the next 30 years was that the further maturing of the Great Inventions led to rapidly rising incomes and a spread of that modern lifestyle to the nation as a whole. But then everything slowed down. And Gordon argues that the slowdown is likely to be permanent: The great age of progress is behind us. But is Gordon just from the wrong generation, unable to fully appreciate the wonders of the latest technology? I suspect that things like social media make a bigger positive difference to people’s lives than he acknowledges. But he makes two really good points that throw quite a lot of cold water on the claims of techno-optimists.
First, he points out that genuinely major innovations normally bring about big changes in business practices, in what workplaces look like and how they function. And there were some changes along those lines between the mid-1990s and the mid-2000s ― but not much since, which is evidence for Gordon’s claim that the main impact of the I.T. revolution has already happened.
Second, one of the major arguments of techno-optimists is that official measures of economic growth understate the real extent of progress, because they don’t fully account for the benefits of truly new goods. Gordon concedes this point, but notes that it was always thus ― and that the understatement of progress was probably bigger during the great prewar transformation than it is today.
So what does this say about the future? Gordon suggests that the future is all too likely to be marked by stagnant living standards for most Americans, because the effects of slowing technological progress will be reinforced by a set of “headwinds”: rising inequality, a plateau in education levels, an aging population and more.
It’s a shocking prediction for a society whose self-image, arguably its very identity, is bound up with the expectation of constant progress. And you have to wonder about the social and political consequences of another generation of stagnation or decline in working-class incomes.
Of course, Gordon could be wrong: Maybe we’re on the cusp of truly transformative change, say from artificial intelligence or radical progress in biology (which would bring their own risks). But he makes a powerful case. Perhaps the future isn’t what it used to be.



My husband and I are gay and are exploring the possibility of having children using an egg donor and a surrogate mother. Sometimes when we mention this in conversation, people ask us, in a chiding tone, Why don’t you adopt? They often then argue that with so many children in need of good homes, it would be ethically superior for us to adopt, instead of spending a small fortune so we can have children to whom we are genetically tied. In addition, there are ethical issues related to paying women for their eggs or paying women to carry our children as surrogates. Are we acting unethically ― or at the least selfishly or self-indulgently ― in pursuing biological children instead of adopting orphans who could benefit from what (we like to think) would be a good home?
Anybody who is contemplating having a baby, by whatever means, could be adopting a child instead. If those who chide you include people who have biological children themselves, you might want to point this out. Come to think of it, your friends who don’t have children are also free, if they meet the legal requirements, to adopt. Every child awaiting adoption is someone who could benefit from parental volunteers. There is no good reason to pick on you.
The path you have chosen, it’s true, mixes commerce and reproduction through egg donation and surrogacy. But while acquiring an egg and then working with a surrogate mother are transactions with ethical risks, they can each be conducted in morally permissible ways. The main concerns I would have are avoiding exploitation ― so you need to make sure that the donor and the surrogate are acting freely and are fairly compensated ― and taking care that your understanding with the surrogate mother is clearly laid out in advance. But any responsible agency that assists you in this should cover these bases.
Wanting a biological connection with your child is pretty normal: We evolved to pass on our genes, after all, even if we’re free to give Mother Nature the side-eye. There are also things you can more likely do for children to whom you’re biologically related ― notably, on the organ-donor front. So while it would be terrific if you adopted, it’s no more incumbent on you than it is on any other potential parents.
I’ve worked as an educator and administrator in public schools for over a decade. During this time, I have served as a character witness and written letters on behalf of students who have been arrested. In certain cases, these students have been charged with violent offenses. I often found myself in heated arguments with a loved one over these acts of advocacy, specifically because court proceedings typically take place during the day, which requires me to have someone cover my duties at school. I feel that this advocacy is justified because I am an adult who has invested deeply in the development of the children and knows who they are outside of their offenses. Is it ethical for school staff members to offer their time and efforts to support students charged with violent crimes?
You’re presumably talking about helping the courts to understand the social and educational contexts of students accused of crimes. You’re permitted to testify when the courts find this information relevant in deciding what to do with young offenders. In doing so, you’re helping the courts make what are often very difficult decisions. As long as your advocacy is truthful, it can be a valuable contribution. Asking colleagues to cover for you when you’re doing a public service would seem entirely acceptable; they have good reason to support what you’re doing ― and because of that, you should be willing to cover for others when they do the same.
Let me address an issue you haven’t raised: The fact that a student on whose behalf you speak could receive a lighter sentence may upset his or her victims or their families. If the court is doing its job properly, however, the sentence is lighter only because its decision would have otherwise been based on a less complete picture. There is, of course, a question of fairness here, because many young offenders don’t have the advantage of a teacher willing to speak up for them. But you wouldn’t contribute to the overall justice of the situation by denying helpful information in one case on the grounds that it’s unavailable in many others. If you want to help with that problem, you might try to persuade your union to develop ethical guidelines for conducting this form of advocacy.
I am the director of a student’s research for his master’s degree and his eventual thesis. When I accepted him as a student, I was impressed by his intelligence, but I have come to know him as a conniving person who easily lies to get his way. He has no problem manipulating people who don’t know him, and I have come to dislike him because of the way he uses his intelligence. My question is how to respond to his eventual requests for recommendations. He hasn´t written his thesis yet and busies himself with many other activities, but I know that he will eventually produce a document. I do not want to give this individual a good recommendation. Denying him will probably create an enemy for life, and that can be a difficulty given the culture of the South American country where I live. What should I do or say to him when it comes time to respond to his request? Do I have some obligation to recommend him, looking for any good points I can speak to?
Here in the United States, you’re certainly free to tell a student you won’t write a recommendation for him, or to say that you don’t think a recommendation from you would be helpful if you did. Indeed, if you’re sure that it will be unhelpful, I think you have a duty to say so. But I don’t know what the conventions are in your country; you seem to be worried that this sort of frankness might create a dangerous enemy. Maybe you have reason to doubt that your recommendation would be kept in confidence.
That may justify care and caution; it doesn’t justify mendacity. You should write a letter that your student could see without feeling you betrayed him and that you could write without feeling you betrayed yourself. Accurately describe his intellectual skills and achievements. But you don’t need to say anything at all about his character. Readers will surely make their own inferences; they know that what you don’t say is just as important as what you do. If it’s conventional where you live to say something positive about a person’s character, your silence can be expected to prompt a negative inference. Even if it doesn’t, you won’t have said anything to support a positive inference.
Here’s a test you might put to yourself: Suppose someone employs your student after reading your recommendation and then discovers the faults you describe. The employer rereads your letter. Will he or she have cause to feel misled?
Once a week, I volunteer at a nonprofit organization, answering a distress line. As a token of its appreciation, the organization provides volunteers with two subway tickets for each day they volunteer. I do not use these tickets because I get to the organization by walking. Instead, I use the tickets to get to another volunteer job that is farther away and that does not provide volunteers with subway tickets. Am I obliged to use the tickets for their implicit purpose of getting me to and from the volunteer job?
If someone gives you a benefit to be used for a particular purpose, you owe it to that person to ask if you can use it for another. Suppose you’re in college, and your rich uncle gives you money to pay for the expensive new textbooks your syllabus requires. Instead, you buy cheap used editions and put the rest of the money to another use. Maybe you’re buying booze. Maybe you’re donating to the Betty Ford Center. Either way, this isn’t what your uncle had in mind; you’ve broken an implicit agreement.
So ask a responsible person at the organization that gives you the subway tickets. I doubt your conduct will cause concern; you may well be told that the tickets are for the organization’s volunteers to use as they please. All the same: Ask. (And by the way, thanks for doing all this volunteer work!



Families,” a therapist once told me. “They keep us in business.
Writers would most likely say the same. The title alone of Chris Offutt’s memoir, “My Father, the Pornographer,” implies a lifetime of material. Res ipsa loquitur, as they say in tort law. The thing speaks for itself.
If I am counting correctly, Andrew Jefferson Offutt V wrote over 370 works of published pornography before he died in 2013, and hundreds more that never made it into print. He could write a book in three days, if need be. He kept his raw material in three-ring notebooks, 80 percent of them devoted to descriptions of female body parts. (Talk about binders of women.) His specialty and personal passion was sadomasochism, but he could write with commanding dexterity about a cascade of fetishes and perversions, all in a seemingly limitless variety of settings.
Dad wrote pirate porn, ghost porn, science fiction porn, vampire porn, historical porn, time-travel porn, secret agent porn, thriller porn, zombie porn, and Atlantis porn,” Mr. Offutt writes. And that was just in 1972.
There’s a reason Mr. Offutt knows his father’s oeuvre so well. Years before he died, Andy Offutt wrote a secret will that charged his oldest son with the dismantling and disposal of the contents of his home office. “On you, Chris, I decided this task and onus must fall,” he wrote, “and this is oh-fficial.
What this means, practically speaking, is that the book begins with Mr. Offutt ― the author of a novel, two short-story collections, two previous memoirs and a host of TV screenplays (for “True Blood,” “Weeds,” “Treme”) ― driving back to his childhood home in Haldeman, Ky., first to see his father die, and then to go on a major spelunking expedition in his father’s office, which had barely been touched in a decade.
As this memoir buzzes along, though, what becomes clear is that the real obscenity of Mr. Offutt’s childhood had little to do with his father’s profession. It had to do with his father’s cruelty, and the fragile, frightening nature of his ego, big as the Hindenburg and every bit as flammable. “You’ll always be afraid of him, you know,” Mr. Offutt’s brother, Jeff, once told him. It wasn’t until their father died that the author realized he was right.
With “My Father, the Pornographer,” Mr. Offutt attempts to make sense of the narrowly rational man who terrorized his family and led a semi-secret professional life. I took it in in two hungry sittings, which I’m guessing is how long it took Andy Offutt to dispatch his bottles of bourbon. I am not sure he deserved such a generous reminiscence from his son. But at 57, Chris Offutt is ruminative and melancholy. He’s long outgrown the need to be angry.
Andy Offutt feuded with just about everyone he knew, including his children. He made it plain that he didn’t even like children, which is a shame, because he had four. (Catholic.) He seemed to tolerate marriage slightly better, but only because his wife was well practiced in the art of self-annihilation. (She typed his manuscripts.) When he first made the choice to be a professional writer at 36, abandoning his job as a traveling insurance salesman, a smog of anxiety descended over the house. As he pecked away at his typewriter, his children feared speaking too loudly, laughing too loudly, even urinating too loudly.
Only in his late 30s did Mr. Offutt seem to realize that his father was suffering from a “genuine psychological malady.” He never says precisely what it is. But any armchair diagnostician with the latest D.S.M. could make a few educated guesses.
During their childhoods, Mr. Offutt and his siblings certainly had a dim notion of what their father did for a living. Though he was ostensibly a writer of science-fiction and fantasy novels (he published 30 works in those genres, so this was hardly a lie), the house was “seething with sexuality,” and there were rumors throughout the county about his true vocation. When the family attended science-fiction and fantasy conventions ― their only family holidays ― other attendees spoke openly and admiringly of the books Andy wrote as John Cleve, his favorite porn nom de plume (one of 17).
But it really isn’t until halfway through the book that Mr. Offutt starts to discuss, in any kind of detail, the contents of his father’s office. The volume and nature of porn he discovers is astonishing ― 1,800 pounds of it, once it’s been boxed and stored ― and much of it is extremely dark, revealing a taste for torture and extreme violence toward women. Andy Offutt’s comics, never published, were particularly upsetting. “Looking at them made my stomach hurt,” his son writes.
You have to wonder whether Andy Offutt’s furious, sadistic imagination also explains his sadism toward his children. Porn may not have been outlet enough. (He frequently told his son that were it not for pornography, he’d have been a serial killer.) More important, though, I think you have to wonder how it affected the adolescent sexuality of his children: What happens when your father is a furnace not just of smoldering rage, but of ferocious, shocking fantasies?
Mr. Offutt doesn’t seem to go in for “dime-story psychology,” as he calls it at one point. But we do get a clue. It’s the most tragic part of his memoir, and it arrives by stealth. At roughly the same moment he describes exploring the mysterious contents of his father’s office, he recalls his visits to the “fatman,” an overweight sad sack in town who sexually abused Chris when he was 15.
Later, I decided that my parents would be proud of my open-mindedness in such a small town,” he writes. “I believed that what I was doing with the fatman made me similar to them. They wrote porn and had affairs. If they knew about the fatman, they would respect me, maybe even like me.
Through it all, Mr. Offutt somehow manages to summon compassion for his father. That, ultimately, is what makes this memoir so unexpectedly moving. He admires his dad’s bravery for choosing a writing life. He wishes his dad didn’t have to become a hack, seeing real potential in his fecund, rambunctious imagination. And most of all, he pities his father’s loneliness, for being sentenced to a lifetime preoccupation with torture and a headful of savage sexual fantasies, predicated on the harming of innocents.
I felt a horrified sympathy for anyone who lived with such imagery on a daily basis,” he writes. “I had no idea how miserable he had truly been.



LUXOR, Egypt ― For weeks, a group of explorers have scanned the walls of a tomb in the Valley of the Kings, using radar and infrared devices, in the hopes that science might confirm one Egyptologist’s theory: that hidden behind a wall of King Tutankhamen’s burial chamber sits the long-sought tomb of Queen Nefertiti.
The prospect of such a discovery is beyond tantalizing, and would be as momentous a find as any here for almost a century, antiquities officials say. It would also come at a time when Egypt’s tourism industry, frozen by years of political unrest and fears of militant attacks, is in urgent need of good news.
For the noted Egyptologist, Nicholas Reeves, the tests could vindicate his arguments that two of the walls in the tomb of Tutankhamen, also known as King Tut, are likely to mask hidden rooms, and that the tomb itself was in fact an antechamber to a larger burial complex that belonged to Nefertiti, Pharoah Akhenaten’s powerful queen who according to some theories, succeeded him as ruler of Egypt.
Dr. Reeves acknowledges that Egyptian officials, including some of his colleagues in the search, do not share the conviction that Nefertiti is waiting to be found in any undiscovered chambers.
For Egypt, there is much at stake. The government is desperate for the kind of earth-shattering archaeological find that would lure tourists back to its ancient monuments. Visitors have been driven away from everywhere in Egypt but its beaches, and in the last few weeks, the seaside resorts have emptied, too, after militants claimed responsibility for downing a plane full of Russian beachgoers in late October, killing everyone onboard.
With that gathering sense of urgency, the explorers emerged from Tutankhamen’s tomb this weekend, plainly exhausted by the work but carrying what they said was promising news: Radar scans had provided strong evidence of hollow chambers behind the walls. Mamdouh Eldamaty, Egypt’s antiquities minister, said at a news conference announcing the findings that there was an “approximately 90 percent” chance that something ― “another chamber, another tomb” ― was waiting beyond Tutankhamen’s burial chamber.
I think it’s a very good result,” he said, adding that more analysis would be carried out over the coming weeks on the radar data to try to determine more precisely what is beyond the walls. After that, researchers may drill into the walls to get an even better look, though there is no set timetable for that step.
Hours after the news conference on Saturday, the explorers returned to Tutankhamen’s tomb, where Hirokatsu Watanabe, the Japanese specialist carrying out the radar scans, surveyed an area outside the entrance to the burial chamber. Mr. Watanabe dragged his silver, battered-looking device back and forth across the dirt, as journalists followed his every move and another member of the team took notes.
Among those watching was Mustafa Waziry, the director of antiquities of Luxor. “I’m an archaeologist, I don’t know what it means,” Mr. Waziry said, speaking of the results of the radar tests. But the implications were clear.
If we discover something, it will turn the world inside out,” he said. “And they will come.
He can only hope. Mr. Waziry and his colleagues have watched in anguish over the last four years as tourism in Egypt collapsed since the uprising against President Hosni Mubarak in 2011.
The year before the uprising, he said, 12,000 people stood in long lines each day to visit the attractions in Luxor. By 2012, the number had plummeted to as few as 300 a day, mirroring a broader disappearance across the country of treasured cultural tourists who spent generously on extended tours of Egypt’s temples and museums.
The numbers had recently started to inch upward, until the crash of the Russian plane, which increased security concerns at Egypt’s airports and caused several countries to either sever or restrict air travel to Egypt.
We are plowing in the ocean,” Mr. Waziry said, as Mr. Watanabe packed up his equipment. “We need something like this.
Dr. Reeves, who previously worked at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, set off the search with a paper last summer titled “The Burial of Nefertiti?” His starting point was an analysis of high-resolution color photographs of the tomb, published in 2014 by Factum Arte, a Spanish company specializing in art replication.
Cautious evaluation of the Factum Arte scans over the course of several months has yielded results which are beyond intriguing: indications of two previously unknown doorways,” he wrote. One was probably a storeroom, he said, and the other, on the tomb’s north wall, was likely a continuation of the tomb containing an “earlier royal internment ― that of Nefertiti herself, celebrated consort, co-regent, and eventual successor of Pharaoh Akhenaten.
Dr. Reeves cited other supporting evidence, positing that what is regarded as Tutankhamen’s tomb, which was discovered by Howard Carter in 1922, had in fact “been both initiated and employed for the burial of Nefertiti.
When Tutankhamen died unexpectedly at the age of 19 ― about a decade after Nefertiti’s death ― her tomb was reopened, and a portion of it reconfigured to accommodate the young king, according to Dr. Reeves.
At least one prominent Egyptologist believes that the entire project will turn up nothing. Dr. Zahi Hawass, a former Egyptian antiquities minister, who for years was the swaggering, public face of the country’s archaeological discoveries and a rainmaker for tourism, ticked off a list of reasons there might be nothing hidden behind the walls ― and certainly, he said, not Nefertiti.
I am an archaeologist for 40 years,” Dr. Hawass said. “I can smell a discovery, and this is no discovery at all.
But despite his criticisms, Dr. Hawass acknowledged that “all of us are desperate for good news.” Whether a discovery was looming, or not, the search itself had begun to stir hope among the proprietors of Luxor’s empty travel agencies and markets.
Bahaa Youssef, who works as a travel manager at Sunrise Tours in the city, said the company was running out of inventive ways to make money. “Egypt needs big events, to make people look at us again,” Mr. Youssef said.
With their camera crews trailing, Dr. Reeves and his colleagues were at the very least creating a buzz, perhaps taking a page from Dr. Hawass, with his showmanship and grand pronouncements.
If we find what I think is there,” Dr. Reeves said, “it will be bigger than Tutankhamen.



A documentary released last year revealed fresh insights about the life of the 20th century’s most celebrated female art collector.
Peggy Guggenheim: Art Addict,” directed by Lisa Immordino Vreeland and first shown at the Tribeca Film Festival in April, was shown in December to coincide with the Art Basel fair in Miami Beach. Four days of screenings there, and the film’s subsequent general release, have prompted a reassessment not only of the extraordinary Guggenheim, who died in 1979 at 81, but also of how much the art world has changed since her heyday.
Ms. Vreeland rediscovered long-lost audio tapes of interviews that Guggenheim conducted in the 1970s with her official biographer, Jacqueline Bogard Weld. The tapes, notable for their subject’s clipped, sardonic replies, form the revelatory backbone of the movie.
We learn that Guggenheim came from the relatively “poor” side of her family, even though she inherited $450,000 when she was 21, enabling her to live an independent life in Europe. She spent four days in bed in Paris with Samuel Beckett. Constantin Brancusi was also among her many lovers and she liked to think that their trysts brought down the price of his sculpture “Bird in Space.” Marcel Duchamp was her art adviser.
The superlative collection of avant-garde art that she managed to smuggle out of France during the German occupation cost her a total of just $40,000. She regarded herself as the “midwife” of Abstract Expressionism, yet it was a friend, the painter Piet Mondrian, who in the 1940s first recognized the talent of Jackson Pollock.
Her pioneering New York gallery, Art of This Century, sold Pollocks for $200 to $600 each. Her own collection of 326 works of modernist and tribal art (including Pollock’s recently restored 1947 drip painting “Alchemy”), housed in a half-built palazzo on the Grand Canal in Venice, is worth “billions and billions,” said Larry Gagosian, one of the 21st-century gallery owners interviewed in the movie.
Today’s art world is, of course, far larger than it was in Guggenheim’s day. Globalization, financial deregulation and the lure of art as a tax-efficient alternative investment have encouraged people to pour money into the market for postwar and contemporary art. Galleries, fairs, auctions ― and artists ― have proliferated across the world, and prices have soared.
In 2006, a 1948 Pollock was reportedly sold by the entertainment magnate David Geffen for $140 million. If another important Pollock were to come on the market in 2016, it would surely sell for more than $200 million.
Ours is a money-orientated society,” said Christian Ogier, a Paris art dealer. “We have big-bucks collectors. The value of an artist is measured by the price he or she is able to elicit.
Mr. Ogier added that it is a very different world from the 20th-century avant-garde. “There were far fewer collectors then,” he said, “and they were collecting for art’s sake.
In an age of growing income inequality, the excesses of today’s art market are, for some, beginning to grate. In October, Chris Dercon, the director of Tate Modern in London, wrote in The Art Newspaper that there was a conflict between “those who treat art as a private good ― from which to profit” and those who participate in art as a “collective process and common endeavor, based on inclusion and access.
With a nod to Mr. Dercon, and perhaps to the acclaim that an American artist like Theaster Gates has been attracting for his engagement with a wider public, the Tate’s 2015 Turner Prize was awarded on Dec. 7 not to an artist represented by a commercial gallery, but to Assemble, a collective of young architects and designers who specialize in community projects.
And one of the surprise British best sellers of 2015 was “We Go to the Gallery,” written, illustrated and self-published by Miriam Elia, a London artist.
This faux children’s reading book, inspired by Ladybird’s “Peter and Jane” books of the 1960s, offers a mordant take on the conceptualism and commercialism of the contemporary art world.
I want to play with the balloon,” says a young boy named John, pointing to a red “Balloon Dog” sculpture by Jeff Koons. He is clearly unaware that an orange version of this 1994-2000 work sold at auction in 2013 for $58.4 million.
Only venture capitalists can play with this balloon,” John’s mother tells him.
Ms. Elia’s revised version of her book has sold 51,175 copies in Britain, with a price of 8.99 pounds, about $10.30, according to data provided by Nielsen BookScan. The first version of the book had to be withdrawn after a legal dispute with Penguin, the publisher of the original “Peter and Jane” series.
Self-publishing has given me autonomy,” said Ms. Elia, 33. “I can sell art to a very wide audience. I wanted the book to be as cheap as possible so it would be in lots of Christmas stockings. It’s more democratic than an art dealer saying I value this at £1 million.
Another piece that subverts the “collectability” of contemporary art is Peter Kennard and Neville Brody’s high-resolution photomontage print, “Peace on Earth,” which can be downloaded free from the Royal College of Art’s website. It shows an image of the Virgin Mary from an Italian baroque painting, but with her face replaced by the planet Earth beneath a peace-sign halo.
The work just goes out there, and people can do what they want with it,” said Mr. Kennard, 66, who teaches at the Royal College, and whose political photomontages are the subject of an exhibition at the Imperial War Museum in London.
There’s a feeling that the art scene in terms of auctions is something so separate now,” he added. “All ordinary people see of contemporary art is reports of a Picasso making $160 million. It creates a sense that art is just money.
To be sure, Peggy Guggenheim herself belonged to a financial elite, and she spent most of her life buying and selling at what was then the very top of the market.
But, as Arne Glimcher, founder of the Pace Gallery, points out in the documentary, “it wasn’t about money, it was about art.” Which in turn, raises a question about which of her 21st-century successors would make as entertaining a subject for a film? And which could create a museum that attracts 400,000 people a year, as Guggenheim’s center in Venice does.
Visitors are drawn to that museum not just by masterpieces like Magritte’s 1953-54 “Empire of Light,” but also by the largeness of Guggenheim’s life (her ashes are interred in the garden, next to a memorial plaque for 14 of her dogs).
Today’s investment-savvy megacollectors tend to keep a lower profile. Major purchases are almost invariably anonymous and wrapped in confidentiality clauses, and even when a private collector opens a museum, interventions by advisers and curators can blur a sense of that individual’s personal taste.
Peggy Guggenheim was in many ways a sad figure. Her father died on the Titanic when it sank in 1912. Both her marriages failed, and her daughter committed suicide. But she loved and bought great art, and she was passionately human.
Ultimately, for all the millions that billionaires now spend on art, it is the latter that makes her such a hard act to follow.



A documentary released last year revealed fresh insights about the life of the 20th century’s most celebrated female art collector.
Peggy Guggenheim: Art Addict,” directed by Lisa Immordino Vreeland and first shown at the Tribeca Film Festival in April, was shown in December to coincide with the Art Basel fair in Miami Beach. Four days of screenings there, and the film’s subsequent general release, have prompted a reassessment not only of the extraordinary Guggenheim, who died in 1979 at 81, but also of how much the art world has changed since her heyday.
Ms. Vreeland rediscovered long-lost audio tapes of interviews that Guggenheim conducted in the 1970s with her official biographer, Jacqueline Bogard Weld. The tapes, notable for their subject’s clipped, sardonic replies, form the revelatory backbone of the movie.
We learn that Guggenheim came from the relatively “poor” side of her family, even though she inherited $450,000 when she was 21, enabling her to live an independent life in Europe. She spent four days in bed in Paris with Samuel Beckett. Constantin Brancusi was also among her many lovers and she liked to think that their trysts brought down the price of his sculpture “Bird in Space.” Marcel Duchamp was her art adviser.
The superlative collection of avant-garde art that she managed to smuggle out of France during the German occupation cost her a total of just $40,000. She regarded herself as the “midwife” of Abstract Expressionism, yet it was a friend, the painter Piet Mondrian, who in the 1940s first recognized the talent of Jackson Pollock.
Her pioneering New York gallery, Art of This Century, sold Pollocks for $200 to $600 each. Her own collection of 326 works of modernist and tribal art (including Pollock’s recently restored 1947 drip painting “Alchemy”), housed in a half-built palazzo on the Grand Canal in Venice, is worth “billions and billions,” said Larry Gagosian, one of the 21st-century gallery owners interviewed in the movie.
Today’s art world is, of course, far larger than it was in Guggenheim’s day. Globalization, financial deregulation and the lure of art as a tax-efficient alternative investment have encouraged people to pour money into the market for postwar and contemporary art. Galleries, fairs, auctions ― and artists ― have proliferated across the world, and prices have soared.
In 2006, a 1948 Pollock was reportedly sold by the entertainment magnate David Geffen for $140 million. If another important Pollock were to come on the market in 2016, it would surely sell for more than $200 million.
Ours is a money-orientated society,” said Christian Ogier, a Paris art dealer. “We have big-bucks collectors. The value of an artist is measured by the price he or she is able to elicit.
Mr. Ogier added that it is a very different world from the 20th-century avant-garde. “There were far fewer collectors then,” he said, “and they were collecting for art’s sake.
In an age of growing income inequality, the excesses of today’s art market are, for some, beginning to grate. In October, Chris Dercon, the director of Tate Modern in London, wrote in The Art Newspaper that there was a conflict between “those who treat art as a private good ― from which to profit” and those who participate in art as a “collective process and common endeavor, based on inclusion and access.
With a nod to Mr. Dercon, and perhaps to the acclaim that an American artist like Theaster Gates has been attracting for his engagement with a wider public, the Tate’s 2015 Turner Prize was awarded on Dec. 7 not to an artist represented by a commercial gallery, but to Assemble, a collective of young architects and designers who specialize in community projects.
And one of the surprise British best sellers of 2015 was “We Go to the Gallery,” written, illustrated and self-published by Miriam Elia, a London artist.
This faux children’s reading book, inspired by Ladybird’s “Peter and Jane” books of the 1960s, offers a mordant take on the conceptualism and commercialism of the contemporary art world.
I want to play with the balloon,” says a young boy named John, pointing to a red “Balloon Dog” sculpture by Jeff Koons. He is clearly unaware that an orange version of this 1994-2000 work sold at auction in 2013 for $58.4 million.
Only venture capitalists can play with this balloon,” John’s mother tells him.
Ms. Elia’s revised version of her book has sold 51,175 copies in Britain, with a price of 8.99 pounds, about $10.30, according to data provided by Nielsen BookScan. The first version of the book had to be withdrawn after a legal dispute with Penguin, the publisher of the original “Peter and Jane” series.
Self-publishing has given me autonomy,” said Ms. Elia, 33. “I can sell art to a very wide audience. I wanted the book to be as cheap as possible so it would be in lots of Christmas stockings. It’s more democratic than an art dealer saying I value this at £1 million.
Another piece that subverts the “collectability” of contemporary art is Peter Kennard and Neville Brody’s high-resolution photomontage print, “Peace on Earth,” which can be downloaded free from the Royal College of Art’s website. It shows an image of the Virgin Mary from an Italian baroque painting, but with her face replaced by the planet Earth beneath a peace-sign halo.
The work just goes out there, and people can do what they want with it,” said Mr. Kennard, 66, who teaches at the Royal College, and whose political photomontages are the subject of an exhibition at the Imperial War Museum in London.
There’s a feeling that the art scene in terms of auctions is something so separate now,” he added. “All ordinary people see of contemporary art is reports of a Picasso making $160 million. It creates a sense that art is just money.
To be sure, Peggy Guggenheim herself belonged to a financial elite, and she spent most of her life buying and selling at what was then the very top of the market.
But, as Arne Glimcher, founder of the Pace Gallery, points out in the documentary, “it wasn’t about money, it was about art.” Which in turn, raises a question about which of her 21st-century successors would make as entertaining a subject for a film? And which could create a museum that attracts 400,000 people a year, as Guggenheim’s center in Venice does.
Visitors are drawn to that museum not just by masterpieces like Magritte’s 1953-54 “Empire of Light,” but also by the largeness of Guggenheim’s life (her ashes are interred in the garden, next to a memorial plaque for 14 of her dogs).
Today’s investment-savvy megacollectors tend to keep a lower profile. Major purchases are almost invariably anonymous and wrapped in confidentiality clauses, and even when a private collector opens a museum, interventions by advisers and curators can blur a sense of that individual’s personal taste.
Peggy Guggenheim was in many ways a sad figure. Her father died on the Titanic when it sank in 1912. Both her marriages failed, and her daughter committed suicide. But she loved and bought great art, and she was passionately human.
Ultimately, for all the millions that billionaires now spend on art, it is the latter that makes her such a hard act to follow.



LONDON ― So now it’s official: The latest art market boom has peaked, according to figures from Christie’s and Sotheby’s, the two biggest international auction houses.
In late January, the companies released their 2015 results, with each reporting a slight decrease in year-over-year sales. It was the first year since 2010 that both failed to show an increase.
Christie’s, a private company based in London, reported auctions and private sales of 4.8 billion pounds, or about $6.8 billion in 2015, a decline of about 5 percent from 2014. Equivalent sales at Sotheby’s, which is publicly traded and based in New York, were $6.6 billion, about 1 percent less than in 2014.
1%。
Those figures do not represent a burst bubble, or even a serious correction, but they do suggest that 2016 is going to be a challenging year for the art market, reflecting the volatility and uncertainty of the wider world.
The froth has been skimmed off,” said Paul Ress, the chief executive of Right Capital, which provides loans secured by art to dealers and collectors. Mr. Ress said that the collapse in the price of oil has taken “a huge amount of cash” out of the art market.
There aren’t so many Russians and Brazilians involved now, and the Chinese slowdown has had a knock-on effect on the raw materials and equity markets,” he said. “The potential buyers in the art world won’t be feeling as rich as they did last year.
An examination of Christie’s results reveals key shifts in the market in 2015. Bolstered by huge one-off prices in New York for trophy works by artists like Picasso and Modigliani , auction sales of Impressionist and modern art were up 57 percent to £1.3 billion, while those of postwar and contemporary art ― the main driver of growth from 2009 to 2014 ― were down 14 percent to £1.5 billion. Year-over-year sales of old master paintings and 19th-century and Russian art shrank 37 percent to £154.9 million.
It’s a healthy correction,” said Roman Kräussl, an associate professor of finance at the University of Luxembourg and co-author of a research paper, “Is There a Bubble in the Art Market?” which was published in January in the Journal of Empirical Finance. The paper, which tracked prices from 1970 through 2013, identified the segments of postwar and contemporary, as well as American art, as being in a bubble “still in the mania phase of its formation.
Is There a Bubble in the Art Market?
But now, seemingly, a measure of sanity has returned. “We won’t see many records in 2016 if the auction houses let the market correct itself and there aren’t too many guarantees,” Mr. Kräussl said.
Owners, wary of a downturn, have become more reluctant to sell high-value works. Sotheby’s and Christie’s February auctions of Impressionist and modern, and of contemporary art in London are smaller and carry lower estimates than their equivalent events last year.
Sotheby’s evening sale on Wednesday of Impressionist and modern art contains 54 works, compared with 75 last February. That 2015 auction grossed £186.4 million against a low estimate of £139.2 million . Next week, it is expected to raise at least £97.6 million.
The evening’s star lot is “Tête de Femme,” a 1935 Picasso study of his lover and muse Marie-Thérèse Walter. Offered without a guaranteed minimum price, it has a low estimate of £16 million, or about $22.8 million. Its current owner bought it at Sotheby’s in New York in November 2013 for $39.9 million.
On Feb. 11, at Christie’s evening contemporary sale, the auction house and a third-party financier are banking that the market for the Scottish painter Peter Doig is bubble-proof. Mr. Doig’s 1991 canvas, “The Architect’s Home in the Ravine,” is guaranteed to sell against a low estimate of £10 million, or about $14.2 million, £2.3 million more than it brought at auction in London three years ago.
Overall expectations, too, have contracted at Christie’s. The 62 lots of its evening contemporary sale have a total minimum valuation of £50.4 million, almost half the low estimate the company placed on its equivalent 64-lot auction in 2015, which took in £117.1 million .
With investment-conscious buyers now nervous about spending significant sums on works by artists without established reputations, the new category of “20th-century art” ― to which the Picasso and the Doig both belong ― now dominates the market.
Sotheby’s and Christie’s both used the label “20th century” to promote their February sales. And Phillips, whose contemporary auctions used to be synonymous with the hottest emerging names, is holding its inaugural sale of “20th Century and Contemporary Art” in London on Feb. 9. The 46 lots carry a low estimate of £28.6 million. Adding big names from the last century like De Kooning and De Chirico to Mark Bradford and Tauba Auerbach helped Phillips realize $523 million in auction sales last year, a 34 percent increase over 2014.
34%。
But is the market for 20th-century art itself a bubble about to burst, just like the market for Impressionist art imploded back in 1991?
Mr. Kräussl doesn’t think so, at least at the very top of the market.
Art is now a must-have for the rich,” he said. “There’s such a concentration of money in the 0.1 percent, and wherever they are in the world, these ultra-wealthy people want status symbols. Every collection has to have a Picasso, a Richter, a Warhol.
But Mr. Kräussl, along with many other people, is less sure about the rest of the art that thousands of lesser-known artists have produced over the last 115 years, let alone the preceding 5,000.
I think collectors will be focusing more financial attention on an older generation of artists rather than emerging contemporary,” said Heather Flow, an art adviser based in New York. “I think most collectors, rightly so, have been confused about the price fluctuations of younger artists.
Rediscovered, rather than discovered, talent looks to be a recurring theme of a bearish 2016. On Jan. 22, the Italian dealership M&L Fine Art inaugurated its new gallery in London’s Bond Street with an exhibition of 11 white paintings by Angelo Savelli (1911-1995), a Calabrian-born artist who lived in New York and whose monochrome compositions were influenced by Abstract Expressionism. The works, dating from 1963 to 1989, are priced from 25,000 euros to 50,000, or $27,000 to $163,000.
Buyers will be hoping that Savelli, many of whose works are owned by the Prada Foundation, will be this year’s Paolo Scheggi, whose auction prices shot up from a high of $353,617 in October 2013 to $1.8 million in May 2015. Savelli’s current auction high is $91,764, set in 2007.
In 1991, the Impressionist boom went bust when Japanese speculators lost fortunes in their country’s real estate bubble. Since then, a lot more wealthy people around the world have started buying high-value art, and, thanks to financial mechanisms like quantitative easing and offshore accounting, they have become much more adept at keeping and growing their wealth.
Mr. Ress, the art lender, recently worked with a client who owned a $50 million collection of 1,500 artworks. “The pieces were owned by hundreds of different companies in a number of different offshore tax havens,” he said.
Do people like Mr. Ress’s client still think art is a smart investment? Only when that question is answered will we find out if this boom was in reality a bubble.



MEXICO CITY ― It was not long after the first trumpets on Sunday that José Tomás found himself in familiar territory: inches from the vicious horns of a fighting bull, so close they nearly brushed up against the pink silk of his traje de luces, or suit of lights.
Careful not to twitch a muscle, which could have been a trigger for the bull to attack him, Tomás stood firm in this dangerous position and alone at the center of the Plaza México, the biggest bullring in the world. Tomás’s cultish followers are called Tomasistas, and the bullring was filled with more than 45,000 spectators, the largest draw for a matador in recent memory.
All of them were eager to witness the Great One before he decided to retire or before another horn wound ended his career for him.
Tomás, 40, was not like other matadors. He was the embodiment of mystery ― in and out of the ring. For years, he has refused to give interviews or to appear on television. You had to see him live to see him at all, and he performed so infrequently, usually once or twice a year, that tickets sold out within hours.
His mastery, though, was not only in his marketing. Tomás’s performances were savage ballets, a blend of elegance, fearlessness, timing and sacrifice. He seemed determined to pass bulls ever closer to his body, pushing the boundaries of how close a man could get.
He’s a mystic,” Allen Josephs, a professor of literature and Spanish studies at the University of West Florida who has written extensively about matadors and bulls, said in a recent interview for the magazine True.Ink. “We want the great matador to bring the animal in closer and closer and closer. It’s playing with death. Why do we play with death? Because by playing with death, in some ways, we overcome it.
By overcoming death, Tomás represented a kind of immortality, and now here he was, swinging the red muleta behind his back, the red furls of the wool cloth slicing through air heavy with cigar smoke as the 1,150-pound Bellotero, his first bull of the afternoon, gazed at his tiny waist. Finally, Tomás made a pass, and the crowd exploded.
Then he got too close. A horn caught the inside of Tomás’s leg. He crashed to the sand, and the crowd shrieked as the bull’s horns tore away at the back of his thighs.
As a teenager in a suburb of Madrid, where the bullfighting schools are perhaps the most competitive in Spain, Tomás struggled to attract attention from the bullring promoters, managers and financiers who bankroll young matadors. He moved to Mexico to attract attention and perfected a style of bullfighting so dangerous he has nearly been killed.
In 2010, Tomás had just finished an effortless natural, or left-handed pass, in Aguascalientes, Mexico, when a bull plunged his horn into Tomás’s thigh, punctured the femoral artery and drained much of the blood from his body. For a while, it was unclear whether Tomás would survive.
When your mind has gotten used to the fact that you will die and then you don’t, life turns a different color,” said Antonio Barrera, a matador who sustained countless gorings and nearly bled to death as a teenager with an injury similar to the one Tomás sustained in Aguascalientes. In 2012, Barrera spoke in “Gored,” a coming documentary that captures his final bullfight, about how overcoming death had allowed him to perform with abandon.
For me, the bull is like a god,” Barrera said. “The wild bull has a lot of values the human being admires: to be fierce, to be impetuous, to have a breed, to have self-esteem, to fight for what you want, to fight for your life. That’s why you consider him a god, and why in many cultures he has been considered a god.
In the Plaza México on Sunday, as Tomás lay crumpled in the sand, helpers lured Bellotero away. But not for long. Only a few passes later, Tomás was on the ground again, as the bull hooked his horns underneath the jacket of Tomás’s suit and trampled him. Somehow, the horns missed him, and Tomás went on to register a remarkable performance. His derechazos, or right-hand passes, were long and smooth, and his left-hand passes were timed perfectly.
He then placed the sword cleanly, and earned an ear, or trophy, though the audience was clamoring for two ears, an honor akin to a triumph that would allow him to be carried from the plaza on shoulders.
Oddly, it was hard to find any animal rights activists, who have developed a presence in Mexico City, often shouting through their bullhorns that something as cruel as the bullfight should be abolished in places that still hold them: the south of France; Spain, outside of Barcelona; Portugal; Peru; Mexico; Colombia; Ecuador; Guatemala; and Venezuela.
The bullfight here, featuring Tomás and Joselito Adame, a Mexican matador, was the biggest of the winter season, if not the coming year. Before the gates opened, front-row seats were being resold on websites for nearly $8,000 each.
Bullfighting may have taken a financial beating in recent years ― from protests, prohibitions, the struggles of the Spanish economy ― but Tomás has been considered a kind of savior amid the dwindling spectacle, a lone figure who, through his bravery and art, can still inspire a new generation of enthusiasts.
But inside the stadium, as the sun fell and the house lights came on, Tomás struggled. His second bull lacked strength, and despite the engineering of some breathtaking passes, he missed and struggled with his sword, killing poorly.
And with his last bull, he never had a chance. Once the chute swung open and the animal emerged, the frustrated crowd whistled in protest. The bull, despite its speed, was too small, they felt. A substitute bull was called in. This bull was also small, and lacked strength, and Tomás had no choice but to kill it quickly and register his most disappointing performance in years.
Adame then seized the moment. With the final bull of the day, he executed all the tricks to win the laggard crowd over. He dropped to his knees, spun the capes like pinwheels and got so close he touched the horns with his fingers.
He even attempted a dangerous style of killing called recibiendo, placing the sword as the bull charged into him rather than jumping over the horns. The move capped a performance that lacked Tomás’s poetry but earned Adame a triumphant two ears for excitement. Adame, not Tomás, was carried through the streets as fans reached out to touch his hand, his suit of lights ― any part of him. It was as if they were touching a saint.
Back at his hotel, Tomás emerged to have a late dinner with his handlers. He wore dark jeans, black shoes, a flamenco-style scarf. He was asked how he felt.
What can one do?” he said in Spanish, shaking his head. He looked sullen and deflated and very much like a typical matador after a rough afternoon ― no longer the mysterious god of the bulls so many people had come to see.



When it comes to Barbie’s body, it will no longer be one size fits all.
On Thursday, Mattel unveiled curvy, petite and tall versions of its iconic fashion doll whose unrealistically thin shape has attracted criticism for decades. The three body types will also be sold in an assortment of skin tones, eye colors and hairstyles.
The move is about more than just making Barbie look different. While Barbie was once Mattel’s powerhouse brand, sales have plummeted in recent years as the doll has struggled to remain relevant to little girls who do not look like her and who play with toys other than dolls.
This is about drawing a wider demographic that had turned away from Barbie back to Barbie,” said Jim Silver, the editor of TTPM, a toy review website.
Barbie’s latest makeover began in a big way last year, when Mattel released a broad assortment of dolls in a greater number of skin tones, eye colors and even facial structures as part of its Fashionistas line.
I think today, frankly more so than any other time, Barbie is truly representing what girls see,” said Richard Dickson, who is Mattel’s president and chief operating officer and the executive in charge of Barbie’s reinvention.
But some industry experts and academics have long doubted that cosmetic changes ― whether racial or ethnic or body shapes ― can revive the popularity of the 57-year-old Barbie, whose sales have been declining by double-digits in recent years.
Executives like Mr. Dickson have been optimistic, pointing to signs that Barbie’s in-store sales began picking up last year. Still, third-quarter sales in 2015 ― the most recent figures available ― showed that Barbie sales declined 14 percent from the same period a year earlier.
14%。
The slumping sales may also be partly attributed to the shift away from traditional toys toward electronics and games in recent years, as many parents and children have clamored for less gender-specific toys. Companies like GoldieBlox have sprung up to offer girls more career-oriented toys, and even Lego, the world’s top toymaker, has had to alter its strategy and some of its building block lines to accommodate the growth in the market for learning toys that appeal to boys and girls.
Mr. Dickson has been steering Mattel’s other professionals.
Barbie’s aspirations have translated to Mattel’s products: Hello Barbie, the interactive talking doll, asks children about what they want to be when they grow up ― a far cry from the Barbie who once claimed that “Math class is tough.
The ones in multiple skin tones did phenomenal for Mattel, and it showed them that people wanted much more than the blonde blue-eyed Barbie,” Mr. Silver said. (Mattel unveiled an African-American Barbie in the late 1960s, and the first Asian Barbie appeared in 1980 as part of its “dolls of the world” collection.
Still, Mattel executives have struggled to rebrand Barbie as an aspirational figure, one not so closely identified with her unnatural body measurements.
It’s hardly a bolt of genius to say let’s make dolls that look different,” said Sean McGowan, an analyst with Oppenheimer and Company. “It’s more like saying ‘Yeah, we stuck with that one single iconic image for too long, let’s try multiple ones.
The new set of dolls was reported earlier by Time magazine on Thursday and is available for pre-order online. The dolls are expected to hit store shelves at major retailers, including Walmart and Toys “R” Us, in March, according to a Mattel spokesman, Alex Clark.
On Twitter, reactions were mixed.
I think as a woman it’s about time, and as a physician, I strongly support that,” said Dr. Kelli Harding, assistant professor of psychiatry at Columbia University Medical Center, who has a background in body dysmorphic disorder. “For a little girl, it’s important to have diversity in what they’re playing with.
Mattel is remaining tight-lipped about how it came up with Barbie’s new proportions. It’s part of the “art and the science,” as Mr. Dickson put it, of creating any toy.
But a curvy, or more full-figured, Barbie doll is about more than just reshaping one brand. The initiative is part of a broader cultural shift at Mattel, where executives have been trying to transform the company into a 21st century toymaker.
Faced with weakening sales in its core brands like Barbie and Fisher-Price, and criticism that it was too slow to pick up on trends, Mattel has undertaken a number of efforts to improve innovation.
A little over a year ago, it created its Toy Box division to fast-track new products, like Hello Barbie and the virtual reality View-Master, two products Mattel has used to showcase that it can be as tech-savvy as its competitors.
Barbie’s new shapes also coincide with a progressive cultural shift already underway in stores and the toy aisles. Parents and many health experts have complained that too many dolls, models and even clothing companies conform to an extremely thin, even anorexic, body type and have pressured corporations to offer a broader variety of images and apparel sizes to give girls and boys more confidence in their own body shapes.
And some parents, concerned about negative gender stereotypes (a racecar for a son, a princess doll for a daughter), have pushed retailers into more gender-neutral territory.
The Disney Store, for example, decided to label all of its children’s Halloween costumes as “for kids,” as opposed to for boys or girls. Amazon, which by some measures accounts for more than half of all online sales, has banished gender distinctions for its toys.
Last year, for probably the first time in Mattel’s history, a Moschino Barbie commercial featured a boy playing with the doll.
I think that this is bigger than Barbie’s shape, because this really gets at gender inequality in the United States as well,” Dr.



Observing two cultural celebrations at the same time can lead to controversy, the Sacramento Kings learned this week.
On Monday night, the team hastily removed free “Year of the Monkey” T-shirts for fans from arena seats after complaints that the giveaway was racially insensitive on the first night of Black History Month.
The Lunar New Year, an Asian festival that will start on Monday in the United States, is the highlight of the Chinese calendar. Each year is based on a symbol of the Chinese horoscope, and this is the Year of the Monkey, the ninth of 12 animals in the cycle. But the team’s effort to celebrate seemed misplaced to some at the start of the annual celebration of African-American heritage.
Images of workers removing the shirts from seats at the Sleep Train arena, where the Kings were playing the Milwaukee Bucks, were published on social media.
Milwaukee Bucks)。
On Facebook, the former N.B.A. All-Star Marques Johnson, a television analyst for the Bucks, described an encounter he had on Monday night with DeMarcus Cousins, the Kings’ All-Star center, who objected to the shirts: “I walk into the building, and DeMarcus Cousins calls me over to an animated discussion he’s having with Kings operations people. He ask me, ‘Olskool, what you think about this T-shirt?’ Told him a little insensitive on 1st day of Black History Month. They pulled the shirts. ...
On Monday night, players and coaches were wearing Black History Month shirts during warm-up. Cousins did not play on Monday night because of a sprained ankle.
The Kings went on to defeat the Bucks, 111-104.
The N.B.A. has celebrated the Lunar New Year before as part of its community engagement programs. In 2015, it ushered in the Year of the Goat with activities including prizes, performances and special foods to celebrate the diversity of the league’s fan base.
This year, other teams in the league have participated in New Year events. The Charlotte Hornets guard Jeremy Lin and players from other teams were featured in a television “Dining Table” spot as part of celebrations from Feb. 3 to 21.
The Sacramento Bee reported that the “Year of the Monkey” shirts were removed from the seats about 90 minutes before the game started. Other celebrations of the Lunar Year went ahead as planned, including a ribbon dance by the Kings’ dancers.
We all need a lesson in sensitivity,” the Kings’ president, Chris Granger, told The Sacramento Bee. “In an effort to celebrate Chinese New Year, we had some concerns about the T-shirt giveaway, so we pulled them all before the doors opened. Certainly we don’t want to offend anybody, and we acted as soon as we heard the concern.



One of the special pleasures of movies and plays based on great novels is the way they lead us back to their literary roots. Playing the images and emotions from stage or screen against the ones in our head while reading the original creates a doubled experience.
Make that a triple in the case of “The Color Purple” by Alice Walker. Ms. Walker, 71, won the Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award for her novel in 1983. Two years later, the book ― about the abuse and spiritual triumph of a black woman in the sharecropping American South ― was adapted into a film by Steven Spielberg and featured the screen acting debuts of Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey.
Twenty years later, the novel became a Tony Award-winning musical, which is now enjoying a Broadway revival and rapturous reviews. Ben Brantley, the chief drama critic for The New York Times, called it “miraculous” and “a glory to behold.
The acclaimed Irish writer Colm Toibin (pronounced COL-um toe-BEAN), 60, is enjoying a parallel success with his novel “Brooklyn,” about a naïve Irish girl who immigrates to the United States in the 1950s. The film adaptation was released in November to stellar reviews for its moving subtlety. Last week, it received three Academy Award nominations, including one for best picture, and has returned Mr. Toibin’s 2009 novel to the best-seller lists.
The writers met for lunch recently at Chez Panisse, the legendary farm-to-table restaurant run by the chef Alice Waters in Berkeley, Calif., not far from where they each wrote much of their books. Over polentina soup and fried sole (for Ms. Walker) and butter lettuce salad and tagliatelle with mushroom ragù (for Mr. Toibin), followed by a moist almond cake with Chantilly cream for dessert, the pair discussed the afterlives of their novels, giving voices to characters who haven’t historically enjoyed them, and their personal quests to find a home in the world.
Philip Galanes: So were you thrilled when Hollywood came calling?
Alice Walker: Not at all! I put them off. I finally had some balance in my life.
PG: And a best seller on your hands.
AW: I’d just said to my partner and daughter, “I’m all yours.” Then Steven [Spielberg] and Quincy [Jones] came to see me. I saw how patiently Steven had read the book and how it moved him. We all hope that we write for the world, not just that little corner that’s like us. But for someone like Steven ― so unlike me and everyone in the story ― to feel what I was offering, that was unusual. And Quincy understood the culture immediately. He said, “Celie is the blues.” Perfect! I felt safe in their hands.
Colm Toibin: I was at a book fair in New York, which can be oddly social. I was chatting with a dealer friend from London, and he introduced me to this woman from New Zealand who had come specifically to meet me. But she didn’t know I was me until I had walked away. So she chased after me and said, “My name is Finola Dwyer.” You know that moment when you look at someone and think, “I like you”?
CT: She’d made [the film] “An Education” with Carey Mulligan, which I liked very much. Nick Hornby wrote the screenplay. So I asked, “If I do this, would Nick write the screenplay?” I hadn’t thought of it before that minute, but I knew if Nick wrote it, it would work.
PG: You didn’t want to write it yourself?
CT: Not at all. But I knew I wanted a novelist to write it.
AW: They asked me to write the screenplay for the movie. And I wrote one from my bed. I had a terrible case of Lyme disease. But I knew I wasn’t well enough to work on it and go down to L.A. and raise my child and make a living, so they got someone else, who was always at my door: “What does this mean? What does that mean?” But it was O.K. because it had to be.
CT: And I soon realized that nobody wanted me around. Nick was doing it. He didn’t ask any questions, never even got in touch. And I thought that was perfectly reasonable.
PG: You didn’t feel protective?
CT: It was the only way it could work. He took the central spine of the novel ― the romantic story and the immigration, the two things that really matter ― and left other things off to the side. But he wasn’t trying to tell a new story. He was faithful to the book within the constraints of film.
PG: And both movies turned out so well. But let’s turn to the bizarre reception for “The Color Purple” film. Amid strong reviews and box office came furious attacks ― full hours on “Phil Donahue” and editorials and talk shows ― about how the story of this one black woman was a broadsided attack on black men. Why, then, did you agree to the Broadway adaptation?
AW: I am remarkably stubborn. And I believe in the truth. So, once I got through the Lyme disease period, I thought adding music to the story might be good. When people are fiercely opposed to things politically, music can help reach them, soften them. This story is one that we need, as a kind of medicine. We are a sick culture, and I believe that art can help.
PG: But the story is also personal. You are the eighth child of a sharecropper ― not so different from your heroine.
AW: Absolutely. I came through a very difficult life for a reason. I had seven brothers and sisters, and not one of them became the person they should have been ― because of poverty, because of racism, because of poor diet and drugs, because of the war. The boys went off to the Army.
PG: I remember my shock at first reading “Purple.” I thought, “My God, sharecropping was just slavery, Part 2.
AW: It was slavery where you could work for many white men, instead of one, and no health benefits. At least in slavery, the owners tried to keep you healthy enough to work. But with sharecroppers, they didn’t even bother. And the thing to remember is that all history is current. The last time I was in Africa, I saw a plantation overseer getting on a small plane with a bullwhip, on his way to someplace growing cotton. All these things are continuing somewhere. There is no rest.
CT: When I was writing “Brooklyn,” Ireland had become very prosperous. And people were arriving there, but Ireland wasn’t ready for it. Now the history is so clear that we Irish went to many countries and made ourselves at home. You’d think that when the Poles or Nigerians or Chinese arrived in Ireland, the Irish would be open with welcome. But it wasn’t true.
PG: Both of you are pretty dedicated nomads.
PG: And so are the heroines in your novels, searching for a safe home in the world. Alice’s Celie is raped and beaten down by men in positions of trust, and Colm’s Eilis is torn by homesickness, always longing for the place she isn’t. Is that search universal?
AW: Definitely. I sometimes think it’s having grown up as the daughter of sharecroppers. That pattern of having to move from one shack to another ― after the family has been exploited for its labor. It’s in the rhythm of my being. Now, I have places here and places there. I go from one to the other. I want to feel that the planet is my home, but I know there are parts of the planet where I’m really not wanted, as Colm was saying.
CT: I had to be careful not to preach about that in the book, just tell the story. But I hope that when you see the young Lithuanian girl at the cash register in the supermarket looking really sad one day, you know it’s for good reason: She’s missing home. I hoped the book might contribute to that public debate.
PG: How much of your own lives contributed to these coming-of-age novels? Colm, you grew up in a rural village in Ireland, like your heroine. Your mother was also a widow.
CT: My father died when I was 12. The town had about 6,000 people. And over several months, a lot of them came to our house. They came every night. There was no telephone, so you never knew who was coming. Just a knock on the door. My job was to answer it and lead the people into the house. They would sit and have tea, and I’d watch like a hawk. They’d say how sorry they were at the beginning and the end, but the middle was something else ― ordinary stories about things that happened in town, you know?
CT: One night, a woman came and talked on and on about her daughter having gone to Brooklyn. I can see her to this day: her scarves and her hat. Brooklyn, Brooklyn, Brooklyn. And after she left, somebody said that a man in Brooklyn had fallen so in love with the daughter ― “mad about her,” as my mother would have said ― that he wouldn’t let her come back to Ireland unless she married him first. That’s all I knew. I had the story for 40 years. And I wrote it after a semester teaching in Austin, Tex., where I’d never felt as far away from home in my life. And when I went home, I really felt it. I thought, “I know what home is.” I found a way to tell the story because those feelings were so urgent.
AW: In my case, it was the terrible things I’d heard about my grandfathers, both of them, when I was 8 or 9 years old. They’d been so mean when they were young. They were fine by the time I knew them, decades later. It was an enormous puzzle: What happens to people?
PG: And it goes straight to the Phil Donahue craziness about your male characters, no?
AW: Of course. Now I know about the hardships that my father, my grandfather, all of the black men went through. The women too, of course, but I was fascinated by the men. They were totally oppressed by the culture. Lynchings were frequent. I used to wonder why my father always had this look when he went off to town that said, I might not be back. He had to behave in this servile way. And if the white people were drunk, they would abuse him anyway.
PG: And that was their model for treating women?
AW: Enslavement culture was their only model for 300 years. They would be looking at the behavior of brutal white overseers. Did you realize that they used to behead people in our country? They put heads on spikes and lined the rivers to keep enslaved people in complete terror. But it was only later that I knew this. My parents hadn’t permitted me to understand it as a child; they never talked about it.
CT: Both of our country’s histories are filled with silence.
PG: And so are your novels. Colm’s line: “The one thing the Lacy women could not do is say out loud what they were thinking.” And Alice’s: “Don’t you never tell nobody but God. It would kill your Mammy.
CT: As a novelist, this is really interesting. Because what a novel can do is show the distance between what’s being said and what’s being felt. Then the reader starts to see: “Oh, my God, they’re not talking about it, but I know what they’re thinking.” It’s very hard to do in a play or film. But in a novel, you can literally show the two things beside each other. And the drama is the distance between what’s to be spoken of and what’s not to be mentioned again.
PG: When your father was ill, your mother left you, as a little boy, with relatives for a long stretch. Did you ever talk about that with her, or would that be one of the moments you’re talking about?
CT: I never did. Does this happen to you when you’re working, Alice? You think you’re making something up, and suddenly, you realize: Oh no, here it comes again: the abandonment. It’s coming up all over again.
AW: All the time. I’ve decided to work with it until I don’t need it anymore. No repression, no regret. Here it is. What can I make of it this time?
PG: Like the story of your grandfather, shooting at your grandmother with a rifle.
AW: And only missing because he was dead drunk. They told that as a funny story. Can you believe it? I’m sure that’s why my brother shot me in the eye when I was 8.
AW: Ten. Poor thing. But everything that happens to us teaches us, if we are open to it. And eventually life will open you. What I learned from that moment in refusing to tell on him.
AW: No, no, no. I was loyal. He would have been beaten by my parents if I’d told. So, my other brother and I conferred and came up with another story. And what I learned from that moment has served me so much better than what happened to my brother. I don’t think he ever cared, and his life was like that. He died, later, of cocaine and anger and frustration. He never apologized, so I’ve had to work with it forever. But I try not to cling to the things that are devastating.
PG: What do you cling to instead?
AW: There was a tree growing out beyond the porch. I was lying in bed. And as I gradually lost sight in that eye, the last thing I saw was that tree. And I love trees.



Life could be complicated for Chinese aristocrats in the 1700s. Just ask the members of the Jia family, who populate “A Dream of Red Pavilions,” Pan Asian Repertory’s handsome and solemn new production at the Clurman Theater. They think everything is going to be fine when one of the daughters is chosen to be a royal courtesan. And they never even know that they have two immortal beings living with them, incarnated as family members.
The playwright, Jeremy Tiang, has to be commended for thinking big. Cao Xueqin’s “Dream of the Red Chamber,” the mid-18th-century novel his play is based on, was 80 chapters long in its shortest form, 120 in its longest, and included some 500 characters, with more than 40 of them considered major. Mr. Tiang pares it down to 18 (mostly Jia relatives and maids), played by a valiant cast of nine. No wonder the production feels so much like a study summary, with undeveloped subplots popping up like untended garden flowers and unelucidated motivations running rampant.
The central love story, on which Mr. Tiang wisely focuses, begins in the spirit world. A talking stone expresses a desire to experience the mortal world and human life. He is soon born to the Jia family as Baoyu (Vichet Chum). Before his transition, he meets and is charmed by a talking flower, who expresses the same wish. She is born as Daiyu (Kelsey Wang), a Jia cousin who comes to live with them. Baoyu and Daiyu are drawn to each other, but family members keep them apart. In fact, they trick Baoyu into marrying another cousin, with the help of the traditional opaque bridal veil.
Hyun Sook Kim’s period costumes evoke early Qing dynasty splendor. Sheryl Liu’s multipurpose set design is both simple and grand. The novel’s poetic style survives in the dialogue. But despite all those dream scenes and the efforts of two directors, Tisa Chang (the company’s artistic producing director) and Lu Yu, the production never becomes more than a pretty curiosity.



For decades, the bronzes created by the artist Malvina Hoffman for the Field Museum’s “Races of Mankind” exhibit have had a ghostly afterlife at the institution. Hailed at their unveiling in 1933 as “the finest racial portraiture the world has yet seen” and viewed by millions of visitors, the sculptures were banished to storage in 1969, embarrassing relics of discredited ideas about human difference.
Some were later scattered through the museum, like the Australian aboriginal man who stood guard for a time outside a McDonald’s on the ground floor, minus his original boomerang and spear. But to curators they remained strangely compelling, if troubling, objects.
When I first came here, I sort of fell in love with them,” Alaka Wali, an anthropologist at the museum, recalled recently. “But there was always debate about what the museum should do with them. They were problematic objects.
Now the Field Museum has put 50 of the 104 sculptures back on display as part of “Looking at Ourselves: Rethinking the Sculptures of Malvina Hoffman,” an exhibition exploring both Hoffman’s artistry and the vexed history of the dubious scientific ideas that her talent was enlisted to serve. At the time of the bronzes’ creation, many anthropologists believed that the world’s people could be divided into distinct racial types, whose visible differences in skin tone, hair texture and bone structure explained differences in behavior.
It’s an idea, the show makes clear through wall texts and video touch-screen displays, that scientists have abandoned, though hardly one that has entirely gone away.
It’s not as if just because scientists say race is not a biological fact, that it doesn’t continue to have an impact,” Ms. Wali, who curated the exhibition, said during a tour of the gallery. She stopped near a section discussing the legacy of scientific racism, which includes photographs of Black Lives Matter protests.
Scientists can now show that human genetic variation doesn’t correspond to racial types,” she said. “But people don’t always listen to scientists.
The new exhibition, which runs through the end of the year, was financed in part by Pamela K. Hull, a granddaughter of Stanley Field, the museum’s president from 1909 to 1964, who paid for the restoration of the bronzes.
It was Field who, in 1929, voted with the museum’s board to commission a group of artists to depict the world’s varied “racial types in a dignified manner.” Instead, the whole job went to Hoffman, a New York sculptor who had studied with Rodin, in what The New York Times called “probably the largest commission ever granted any sculptor,” male or female.
Hoffman traveled the world looking for models with her husband, Samuel Grimson, who took thousands of photographs and made film clips of potential subjects. Hoffman, who once studied anatomy by dissecting cadavers alongside medical students, approached the project with a meticulous realism, using different patinas to subtly suggest skin tones.
The “Races” exhibit, which opened in 1933, included both simple busts and elaborate life-size pieces showing people shooting arrows, climbing trees or posing with spears. In the center stood “Unity of Man,” showing noble figures representing what were believed to be the world’s three main racial groups shouldering the globe equally. But its overall thrust ― driven home by diagrams showing different nose types and the like ― was unmistakable: The world’s peoples could be arranged in a hierarchy, from the primitive to the most civilized.
About 10 million visitors viewed the exhibit over the next three decades, according to the museum, and a show of miniature reproductions traveled the country. But by the 1960s, the scientific theories behind the show had fallen into disrepute. In 1969, the exhibit was dismantled. The Field also halted publication of a “Map of Mankind” based on the exhibit, after receiving a letter from the poet Amiri Baraka (born LeRoi Jones), who denounced it as “white racist pseudo anthropology.
Science has shown today that “we share a common ancestry and the differences among people are not as great as they seem,” according to the website for “Race: Are We So Different?” ― a traveling exhibition created by the American Anthropological Association.
At the Field, the few permanent exhibits that address human variation focus on cultural differences, like a wall of shoes from around the world that Ms. Wali curated in 1997.
Hoffman, who died in 1966, was herself skeptical about the biological notions of race she was hired to illustrate. “I will leave the much-disputed subject of what is meant by the word ‘Aryan’ to be fought out between expert anthropologists and Mr. Hitler,” she wrote in “Heads & Tales,” her 1936 memoir about the commission.
While a short video in the exhibition shows her measuring a Malaysian sitter’s head with calipers, the show emphasizes her differences with scholars like the British anthropologist Sir Arthur Keith, a leading exponent of the idea of racial typologies (and the model for Hoffman’s bust exemplifying the craggy Scot).
These people are individuals,” not types, Hoffman said of the project in 1961.
To recover that individuality, Ms. Wali and colleagues did extensive research into the real people behind Hoffman’s sculptures, roughly half of whom have been identified by name.
The Hawaiian man shown on a surfboard was Sargent Kahanamoku, a member of a well-known Hawaiian family (and brother of the famous surfer Duke Kahanamoku). The model for a bust of a “man from eastern China” was Dr. Hu Shih, the diplomat and scholar who helped establish the modern Chinese script.
One of our docents who is Chinese-American walked in and recognized him immediately,” Ms. Wali said.
The exhibition also corrects some muddled ethnic identifications, like the group labeled “Balinese cockfight,” despite the fact that one of the models was a man from Madura, another Indonesian island, whom Hoffman met in a Parisian restaurant where he worked as a waiter.
Then there’s the impressively muscled figure standing alone in a corner, looking like he got lost on the way to an exhibition of neo-Classical nudes. It was originally labeled “Nordic type,” even though the model was Tony Sansone, a celebrated Italian-American body builder from New York.
Tony Sansone)。
“We just call him Brooklyn man,” Janet Hong, the exhibition’s project manager, said with a laugh.
Taken together, the parade of faces could be seen as a retro equivalent to Crown Fountain in nearby Millennium Park, which mesmerizes visitors with its shifting video close-ups of some 1,000 contemporary Chicagoans of all ages, races and ethnicities, projected on two 50-foot-tall glass towers.
The exhibition “really shows the incredible diversity of human beauty,” said Jen Feasal, an industrial electrician from Lansing, Mich., who had come to the museum specifically to see the new show. She was particularly moved, she added, by the bust of Ota Benga, a Congolese man who was displayed for a time in the Bronx Zoo under the label “African Pygmy”; he committed suicide in 1916.
Asked how she felt about people who might skip the darker stories told by the wall texts and just get lost in the fascinating faces, Ms. Wali said it was understandable. She turned to a bust of Nobosodrou, a Mangbetu woman from what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo.
I could just look at her all day,” Ms. Wali said. “She’s just so beautiful.



A decade ago, when sporting interests in Beijing gravitated toward the coming 2008 Summer Olympics, a small group of boys began China’s hockey revolution by happenstance.
Misha Song started playing hockey because a doctor thought the cold air would cure a nagging cough. Tora Liu was a chubby child looking for ways to exercise indoors, away from the summer heat.
They played on small rinks, like the one inside the China World Mall or a crude sheet built in a decommissioned war bunker. The boys used discounted hockey gear that their parents had collected during business trips abroad. With no one to teach them how to suit up, the boys at first wore their hockey socks inside kneepads to keep their legs warm.
Today, those boys have graduated from their curious beginnings to New England preparatory schools and top junior programs in North America, getting ready for the chance to display the evolution of Chinese hockey at the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing.
It’s kind of absurd thinking ― eight years ago, we would have never imagined we’d still be playing hockey, let alone playing in the U.S.,” said Song, who attends Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., with Liu. “It definitely makes us closer. It’s a special bond that we share.
Song, who turns 19 on Sunday, is a major force in driving hockey interest in China. In June, he became the first Chinese-born player drafted by an N.H.L. team when the Islanders selected him in the sixth round.
When Misha Song got drafted, it just blew up,” said Wei Zhong, 17, a senior at Hinsdale Central High School in Illinois, who plays for the Chicago Mission, a top youth club. “He inspired all these kids to start playing, and some of my friends who were with hockey before to dust off their skates and start playing again.
Song first picked up a stick at age 6, when his father returned with hockey equipment after a business trip to Russia. Four years later, his family moved to Toronto to advance his playing career, and Song relocated to the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey at 15. He began a postgraduate year at Phillips in September.
Amid the celebrated brick facades and snow-covered lawns of Phillips, one of the oldest high schools in the United States, Song has reunited with Liu almost a decade after they first skated together with the Beijing Cubs youth team.
Their friends also pursuing hockey dreams in North America include Zhong; Rudi Ying, 17, who plays for the Toronto Patriots of the Ontario Junior Hockey League; Simon Chen, 18, a senior at South Kent School in Connecticut; and Ou Li, 18, a senior at Noble and Greenough School in Dedham, Mass.
During the off-season, members of the group have trained at camps throughout the continent, played overseas for China’s under-18 national team, and taken trips back to Beijing. When separated, they frequently converse through group messages on WeChat, a popular Chinese communication app, as they relay their struggles in the United States and share their hopes for expanding interest in hockey back home.
I think it definitely helped me tremendously, knowing other kids who literally had the same situation as me, going through the same struggles and who are excelling at their own level,” Li said. “It’s comforting to me. If I don’t have them by my side, this situation could get incredibly difficult; I could feel very lonesome. I’d have no one to relate to.
Often, the boys joke, exchange photos from their youth or organize trips to New York. But they have also shared the plight of being anomalous figures in the hockey culture.
Ying was one of the first Chinese youth players to compete in North America. His father, Da Ying, a famous Chinese actor and director, sent faxes to coaches in the Northeast, searching for opportunities for his son. Chris Masters, who coached the Boston Junior Bruins, invited Rudi Ying to play in a tournament in Canada.
Photographs taken at the time show Ying proudly clutching a gold trophy. He moved to the Chicago area when he was 10.
I was very shy, an inward, awkward kid,” Ying said. “Hockey forces you to talk to kids, learn how to be socially more open, and I think that’s important.
Although the players were enamored of quality hockey environments, they had problems making the transition. For some, language barriers were troublesome. In China, Liu had not studied English since kindergarten, and he said it took him about four years to become fluent.
Playing hockey helped expedite their English and made them feel less shy in social situations. But the games occasionally became hostile. Liu said he had been called racial slurs. In the fall, after Song was drafted, opponents mistakenly directed taunts intended for him at Liu.
There are prices you have to pay since we are the first wave; we are the pioneers,” Chen said. “Personally, I like the adversity.
The players often lived with only one parent while the other split time between North America and China for business. Liu said he did not regularly speak Chinese anymore and had lost contact with most of his friends from his youth in Beijing. Zhong lamented living so far from his grandparents.
When the players go back to China, mostly during school vacations, they have noticed a changing hockey landscape. No longer do children have to skate on makeshift rinks with adults in beer leagues ― many new facilities have been built in major cities in recent years.
In an International Ice Hockey Federation survey from 2015, China had 1,225 registered players. The country also had 48 indoor rinks, more than Austria, the Czech Republic and Japan.
The Islanders’ owner, Charles B. Wang, who was born in Shanghai, has helped support 28 rinks in China. Five N.H.L. games per week are broadcast on local Chinese television, a league representative said, and in December, the Russia-based Kontinental Hockey League announced an expansion into Beijing next season.
While there are signs of steady growth in China, a large financial disparity remains. Much of the hockey activity is centered in major cities. The players now in North America come from families with successful business backgrounds.
Gear is even more expensive in China, and I think that’s one part that’s holding people who are less wealthy back from playing,” Liu said.
Hockey will be a showcase event at the 2022 Olympics, so stronger support is expected from the Chinese government, which could help spread the game.
The success of Song and other top Chinese youth players could have an even larger influence. Paul Tortorella, the coach at Phillips, said he had received inquiries this season from Chinese players wanting to follow in Song and Liu’s footsteps.
During the 1947-48 season, Larry Kwong became the first player of Chinese descent to play in an N.H.L. game. He said in a recent telephone interview that he was proud of this generation of Chinese hockey players.
Song recently met Yao Ming, who was almost single-handedly responsible for China’s transformation into a basketball hotbed. Yao told him not to lose focus and urged him to ignore what outsiders said about him.
If Song or another player reaches the N.H.L., an impact like Yao’s is possible. Song said he embraced his role as an ambassador.
Ying said it was “very inspirational” when Song was drafted.
Before that,” Ying said, “the N.H.L. was really like this light in the distance. After seeing him get drafted, it became a reality and gave me something to work for.
Along with motivating one another, the players have begun to mentor the next wave of potential Chinese stars. At South Kent, Chen is helping two younger Chinese players in the program, passing along the experiences that he and his friends have encountered over the years.
Hockey involves a lot of politics; sometimes you don’t get ice time you earn,” Chen said, adding that some coaches gave more chances to American players than to Asians.
But at end of the day,” he said, “we reached a consensus that we have to bear down, pay the price, because we’re working our butts off for Chinese hockey, for our country. A little adversity is nothing.



Three years ago, Charles Chase, an engineer who manages Lockheed Martin’s nuclear fusion program, was sitting on a white leather couch at Google’s Solve for X conference when a man he had never met knelt down to talk to him.
They spent 20 minutes discussing how much time, money and technology separated humanity from a sustainable fusion reaction ― that is, how to produce clean energy by mimicking the sun’s power ― before Mr. Chase thought to ask the man his name.
I’m Larry Page,” the man said. He realized he had been talking to Google’s billionaire co-founder and chief executive.
He didn’t have any sort of pretension like he shouldn’t be talking to me or ‘Don’t you know who you’re talking to?’” Mr. Chase said. “We just talked.
Larry Page is not a typical chief executive, and in many of the most visible ways, he is not a C.E.O. at all. Corporate leaders tend to spend a good deal of time talking at investor conferences or introducing new products on auditorium stages. Mr. Page, who is 42, has not been on an earnings call since 2013, and the best way to find him at Google I/O ― an annual gathering where the company unveils new products ― is to ignore the main stage and follow the scrum of fans and autograph seekers who mob him in the moments he steps outside closed doors.
But just because he has faded from public view does not mean he is a recluse. He is a regular at robotics conferences and intellectual gatherings like TED. Scientists say he is a good bet to attend Google’s various academic gatherings, like Solve for X and Sci Foo Camp, where he can be found having casual conversations about technology or giving advice to entrepreneurs.
Mr. Page is hardly the first Silicon Valley chief with a case of intellectual wanderlust, but unlike most of his peers, he has invested far beyond his company’s core business and in many ways has made it a reflection of his personal fascinations.
He intends to push even further with Alphabet, a holding company that separates Google’s various cash-rich advertising businesses from the list of speculative projects like self-driving cars that capture the imagination but do not make much money. Alphabet companies and investments span disciplines from biotechnology to energy generation to space travel to artificial intelligence to urban planning.
Investors will get a good look at the scope of those ambitions on Feb. 1, when the company, in its fourth-quarter earnings report, will disclose for the first time the costs and income of the collection of projects outside of Google’s core business.
As chief executive of Alphabet, Mr. Page is tasked with figuring how to spin Google’s billions in advertising profits into new companies and industries. When he announced the reorganization last summer, he said that he and Sergey Brin, Google’s other founder, would do this by finding new people and technologies to invest in, while at the same time slimming down Google ― now called Google Inc., a subsidiary of Alphabet ― so their leaders would have more autonomy.
In general, our model is to have a strong C.E.O. who runs each business, with Sergey and me in service to them as needed,” Mr. Page wrote in a letter to investors. He said that he and Mr. Brin would be responsible for picking those chief executives, monitoring their progress and determining their pay.
Google’s day-to-day management was left to Sundar Pichai, the company’s new chief executive. His job will not be about preventing cancer or launching rocket ships, but to keep Google’s advertising machine humming, to keep innovating in emerging areas like machine learning and virtual reality ― all while steering the company through a thicket of regulatory troubles that could drag on for years.
Mr. Page’s new role is part talent scout and part technology visionary. He still has to find the chief executives of many of the other Alphabet businesses.
And he has said on several occasions that he spends a good deal of time researching new technologies, focusing on what kind of financial or logistic hurdles stand in the way of them being invented or carried out.
His presence at technology events, while just a sliver of his time, is indicative of a giant idea-scouting mission that has in some sense been going on for years but is now Mr. Page’s main job.
In the investor letter, he put it this way: “Sergey and I are seriously in the business of starting new things.
Mr. Page has always had a wide range of interests. As an undergraduate at the University of Michigan, he worked on solar cars, music synthesizers and once proposed that the school build a tram through campus. He arrived at Stanford’s computer science doctorate program in 1995, and had a list of initial research ideas, including self-driving cars and using the web’s many hyperlinks to improve Internet search. His thesis adviser, Terry Winograd, steered him toward search.
Even before he came to Stanford he was interested in cool technical things that could be done,” Mr. Winograd said. “What makes something interesting for him is a big technical challenge. It’s not so much where it’s headed but what the ride is like.
Inside Google, Mr. Page is known for asking a lot of questions about how people do their jobs and challenging their assumptions about why things are as they are. In an interview at the Fortune Global Forum last year, Mr. Page said he enjoyed talking to people who ran the company’s data centers.
I ask them, like, ‘How does the transformer work?’ ‘How does the power come in?’ ‘What do we pay for that?’” he said. “And I’m thinking about it kind of both as an entrepreneur and as a business person. And I’m thinking ‘What are those opportunities?
Another question he likes to ask: “Why can’t this be bigger?
Mr. Page declined multiple requests for comment, and many of the people who spoke about him requested anonymity because they were not supposed to talk about internal company matters.
Many former Google employees who have worked directly with Mr. Page said his managerial modus operandi was to take new technologies or product ideas and generalize them to as many areas as possible. Why can’t Google Now, Google’s predictive search tool, be used to predict everything about a person’s life? Why create a portal to shop for insurance when you can create a portal to shop for every product in the world?
But corporate success means corporate sprawl, and recently Google has seen a number of engineers and others leave for younger rivals like Facebook and start-ups like Uber. Mr. Page has made personal appeals to some of them, and, at least in a few recent cases, has said he is worried that the company has become a difficult place for entrepreneurs, according to people who have met with him.
Part of Mr. Page’s pitch included emphasizing how dedicated he was to “moonshots” like interplanetary travel, or offering employees time and money to pursue new projects of their own. By breaking Google into Alphabet, Mr. Page is hoping to make it a more welcoming home for employees to build new businesses, as well as for potential acquisition targets.
It will also rid his office of the kind of dull-but-necessary annoyances of running a major corporation. Several recently departed Google staff members said that as chief executive of Google, Mr. Page had found himself in the middle of various turf wars, like how to integrate Google Plus, the company’s struggling social media effort, with other products like YouTube, or where to put Google Now, which resided in the Android team but was moved to the search group.
Google Now。
Such disputes are a big reason Mr. Page had been shedding managerial duties and delegating the bulk of his product oversight to Mr. Pichai, these people said. In a 2014 memo to the company announcing Mr. Pichai’s promotion to product chief, Mr. Page said the move would allow him to “focus on the bigger picture” at Google and have more time to get the company’s next generation of big bets off the ground.
People who have worked with Mr. Page say that he tries to guard his calendar, avoiding back-to-back meetings and leaving time to read, research and see new technologies that interest him.
Given that he is worth in the neighborhood of $40 billion and created the world’s most famous website, Mr. Page has the tendency to attract a crowd when he attends technology events. At last year’s Darpa Robotics Challenge, he was trailed closely by a handler who at times acted as a buffer between Mr. Page and would-be cellphone photographers. That commotion could annoy anyone, but it is particularly troubling for Mr. Page, who, because of damaged vocal cords, speaks just above a whisper and sometimes uses a microphone in small meetings.
At home in Palo Alto, Mr. Page tries to have the most normal life possible, driving his children to school or taking his family to local street fairs, according to people who know him or have seen him at such events.
And at Google, even events that are decidedly not normal aspire to a kind of casualness. Take the Camp, an exclusive and secretive event that Google holds at a resort in Sicily and where invitees have included Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla Motors and SpaceX, Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and Tory Burch, the fashion designer.
Tory Burch)。
One attendee, who asked to remain anonymous because guests were not supposed to discuss the gathering, recalls being surprised by how much time Mr. Page spent with his children.
In public remarks, Mr. Page has said how important his father, Carl V. Page, a computer science professor at Michigan State University who died in 1996, was to his choice of career.
My dad was really interested in technology,” Mr. Page said at Google I/O in 2013, the last time he took the stage at the event. “He actually drove me and my family all the way across the country to go to a robotics conference. And then we got there and he thought it was so important that his young son go to the conference, one of the few times I’ve seen him really argue with someone to get in someone underage successfully into the conference, and that was me.
People who work with Mr. Page or have spoken with him at conferences say he tries his best to blend in, and, for the most part, the smaller groups of handpicked attendees at Google’s academic and science gatherings, tend to treat him like a peer.
The scope of his curiosity was apparent at Sci Foo Camp, an annual invitation-only conference that is sponsored by Google, O’Reilly Media and Digital Science.
The largely unstructured “unconference” begins when each of its attendees ― an eclectic batch of astronomers, psychologists, physicists and others ― write something that interests them on a small card and then paste it to a communal wall. Those notes become the basis for breakout talks on topics like scientific ethics or artificial intelligence.
The last conference was held during a weekend in June on Google’s Mountain View, Calif., campus, and Mr. Page was there for most of it. He did not host or give a speech, but mingled and went to talks, just like everyone else. That impressed investors and computer scientists who did not expect to see so much of him, but researchers who had come from outside Silicon Valley barely noticed.
I have a vague memory that some founder type person was walking through the crowd,” said Josh Peek, an assistant astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore.
Another benefit of these gatherings for the reserved Mr. Page is that they are mostly closed to the news media.
When Mr. Page does talk in public, he tends to focus on optimistic pronouncements about the future and Google’s desire to help humanity. Asked about current issues, like how mobile apps are challenging the web or how ad blockers are affecting Google’s business, he tends to dismiss it with something like, “People have been talking about that for a long time.
Lately, he has talked more about his belief that for-profit companies can be a force for social good and change. During a 2014 interview with Charlie Rose, Mr. Page said that instead of a nonprofit or philanthropic organization, he would rather leave his money to an entrepreneur like Mr. Musk.
Of course, for every statement Mr. Page makes about Alphabet’s technocorporate benevolence, you can find many competitors and privacy advocates holding their noses in disgust. Technology companies like Yelp have accused the company of acting like a brutal monopolist that is using the dominance of its search engine to steer consumers toward Google services, even if that means giving the customers inferior information.
Financially speaking, Mr. Page is leaving his chief executive job at Google at a time when things could not be better. The company’s revenue continues to grow about 20 percent a year, an impressive figure for any business, but particularly so for one that is on pace to generate approximately $60 billion this year.
In fact, the company’s main business issue seems to be that it is doing too well. Google is facing antitrust charges in Europe, along with investigations in Europe and the United States. Those issues are now mostly Mr. Pichai’s to worry about, as Mr. Page is out looking for the next big thing.
It is hard to imagine how even the most ambitious person could hope to revolutionize so many industries. And Mr. Page, no matter how smart, cannot possibly be an expert in every area Alphabet wants to touch.
His method is not overly technical. Instead, he tends to focus on how to make a sizable business out of whatever problem this or that technology might solve. Leslie Dewan, a nuclear engineer who founded a company that is trying to generate cheap electricity from nuclear waste, also had a brief conversation with Mr. Page at the Solve For X conference.
She said he questioned her on things like modular manufacturing and how to find the right employees.
He doesn’t have a nuclear background, but he knew the right questions to ask,” said Dr. Dewan, chief executive of Transatomic Power. “‘Have you thought about approaching the manufacturing in this way?’ ‘Have you thought about the vertical integration of the company in this way?’ ‘Have you thought about training the work force this way?’ They weren’t nuclear physics questions, but they were extremely thoughtful ways to think about how we could structure the business.
Dr. Dewan said Mr. Page even gave her an idea for a new market opportunity that she had not thought of. Asked to be more specific, she refused. The idea was too good to share.



When Nelly Toll was 8 years old, during World War II, she rewrote the Cinderella fairy tale with a feminist twist. Instead of Prince Charming, a powerful princess invited Cinderella to live in her castle and enjoy a pianist performing in a sun-drenched room.
Ms. Toll illustrated her story in seven watercolors, basing Cinderella on feisty women in Russian literature and the pianist on her mother, Rozia. But she concocted the fairy tale to transcend reality. She and Rozia, both Jewish, had locked themselves in a tiny room of a Christian family’s home in Nazi-occupied Poland.
There is no evidence in the pictures of war, even though any minute our door might have opened to let the Nazis in,” said Ms. Toll, now 80 and living in New Jersey, who recalled hiding in 1943 and 1944.
Two of her watercolors will soon be on view in “Art From the Holocaust,” an exhibition at the German Historical Museum in Berlin of 100 works that were clandestinely created by 50 Holocaust-era artists. Of the group, half were killed by Adolf Hitler’s troops, but their creations survived.
The Holocaust memorial group Yad Vashem organized the exhibition, which opens Monday and runs through April 3. In choosing from Yad Vashem’s collection of about 6,000 Holocaust-era art donated by survivors and their families, and tracking down the stories behind these works, the curator Eliad Moreh-Rosenberg aimed to draw attention to this overlooked genre’s diverse themes.
Once they hear this art exists, people immediately think about stereotypical images from the Holocaust: barbed wire, yellow stars, chimneys,” Ms. Moreh-Rosenberg said in an interview.
Such symbols appear in a few works but feature wry twists.
A work by Leo Haas, born in what is now the Czech Republic, shows the 1942 arrival of prisoners to the Theresienstadt ghetto. Mr. Haas worked in the technical department there, creating Nazi propaganda by day and his secret art by night. Using purloined ink and paper, he portrayed inmates in a tidy serpentine line, emerging from a mountainous horizon to wind around symmetrically planted trees. Mr. Haas included a tiny “V” in the corner, the symbol of Theresienstadt’s underground movement.
Bedrich Fritta, with Mr. Haas, also included the “V” in his works. One Fritta portrait in the Berlin exhibition shows a pickax-wielding laborer, whose jacket has a Star of David. But Mr. Fritta’s imprisoned laborer is handsome and muscular, defying Hitler’s stereotype of Jews as feeble.
For Ms. Moreh-Rosenberg, it’s not simply the artists’ themes that are rebellious, but also their determination to smuggle art supplies.
When you’re fighting for your life and your basic human needs,” she says, creating art “is not just an escape, it’s an active choice of defiance.
Mr. Fritta paid for that gamble with his life. The Nazis discovered his secret art and deported him in 1944 to Auschwitz, where they killed him. They also deported Mr. Haas, but he survived to exhume 400 artworks of his and help locate 200 of Mr. Fritta’s buried in Theresienstadt. (Mr. Haas died in Berlin in 1983.
Ms. Toll said her mother begged the family hiding them to procure watercolors and told her that the captivity was part of a plan to help stimulate their imaginations. It also distracted Ms. Toll from agonizing over her missing brother and father. “My mother was my teacher, my girlfriend, my doctor when I got sick,” Ms. Toll said. “She was all these roles.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is scheduled to open the exhibition with Ms. Toll to commemorate 50 years of German-Israeli relations. The anniversary comes as many global Jewish leaders are still questioning Germany’s ability to return art looted from Jewish homes or sold under duress during Hitler’s time in power.
Earlier this month Germany’s Culture Ministry issued its report on the collection of Cornelius Gurlitt, the octogenarian recluse whose father, Hildebrand, was one of Hitler’s art dealers. The younger Mr. Gurlitt hid about 1,200 works of art in Munich for decades before German officials confiscated the collection as part of a tax inquiry. A German magazine leaked word of the trove in late 2013.
After nearly two years and $2 million spent on the project, the report identified only five looted works. But the findings were not endorsed by all members of the committee that researched the collection. The ministry completed the report just hours before its news conference, leaving little time for members to completely read and approve it, according to Agnes Peresztegi, a task force member and president of the Commission for Art Recovery, a wing of the World Jewish Congress. She noted that the task report was in German only. Some of its members, including the Israel Museum’s representative, Shlomit Steinberg, are not fluent in German.
Good wishes and getting things done aren’t the same thing,” Ms. Peresztegi said. “Germany still has soul-searching to do.” She noted that Germany’s websites for the Lost Art Center and the German Lost Art Foundation lack full English translations.
A task force spokesman did not respond to requests for comment. A website for the German Lost Art Foundation has contained a statement since 2015 announcing that the English version is under construction.
Ms. Moreh-Rosenberg, the curator, said she wished that the chancellor’s participation in the exhibition would “increase awareness of the Holocaust and increase sensitivity about the justice that still needs to be done.
Ms. Toll said she hoped that visitors to the exhibition would acknowledge the destructive power of religious intolerance while appreciating Hitler’s “failure to kill the spirit,” including the creative spark shown in the work of a boy her age, Petr Ginz from Prague. In one of Petr’s displayed watercolors, he portrays the room he shared with other children in Theresienstadt in 1943 as a cheery collection of summer camp bunk beds. Petr edited the secret “school” newspaper. In September 1944, the Nazis transported him to Auschwitz and murdered him.
A few months later, the Russian Army liberated the town of Lviv where Ms. Toll was hiding. She ran into the street where Russian soldiers gave her candy. News came that Nazis had killed her brother and father. She and her mother moved to the United States, where she became a citizen, married and earned a Ph.D. in English. She still loves to paint.
It was a long time ago,” Ms. Toll said of the secret room. “It feels like a different version of me.



A 1,200-square-foot house that Frank Lloyd Wright designed to perch on a Los Angeles hillside will be auctioned next month, with most of its contents sold separately.
Los Angeles Modern Auctions will offer the 1939 home, which has a sales estimate of $2.5 million to $3 million, on Feb. 21. The four-room wood-and-brick structure, with tiers of decks, is cantilevered over a slope in the city’s Brentwood section. In 1967 the actor, playwright and librettist Jack Larson and his partner, the director and screenwriter James Bridges, purchased it for $60,000; they restored it, preserving the original furniture and coping with its persistently leaky roof.
The two worked on the house in collaboration with the influential Southern California architect John Lautner, who had supervised the construction for Wright’s clients, George and Selma Sturges. Mr. Bridges died in 1993, and Mr. Larson died last year.
Los Angeles Modern is auctioning the house with two original dining chairs, various built-ins and Mr. Larson’s extensive Wright and Lautner archival material. The rest of its contents will be divided up; stools with X-shaped bases, boxy tables, pyramidal floor lamps and flanged armchairs designed by Wright or Lautner have estimates starting at a few thousand dollars each.
The house has had a series of occupants with scholarly inclinations. Mr. Sturges, a Lockheed engineer and chess aficionado, and his wife spent a decade in the house before hiring the Modernist residential architect Edla Muir to design a more practical home nearby. Edward Lorenz, a meteorologist and chaos theorist, briefly rented the place, and Madeleine Mathiot and Paul Garvin, both linguistics scholars, owned it before Mr. Larson and Mr. Bridges purchased it.
Ms. Mathiot recalled the leaky roof in an interview, recounting that her Russian wolfhound would take refuge under a table when rain seeped in. She and Mr. Garvin sold the property soon after their son was born. “It was beautiful, but unlivable with a baby,” she said. She added that she was saddened to learn that the Wright and Lautner pieces would be auctioned separately.
The plans for dispersal of the furniture have also been lamented in online postings. Janet Halstead, executive director of the Frank Lloyd Wright Building Conservancy in Chicago, wrote in an email that the Wright and Lautner pieces, whether original or added later, “certainly contribute to the context of the house, and the conservancy would strongly urge that the house and the furniture remain together.
Perhaps there is a very enlightened buyer who will try to do exactly that,” she said.
Elizabeth Portanova, the auction house’s marketing director, said that the proceeds would benefit the Bridges-Larson Foundation, which supports creative endeavors. Because the house will be the first lot in the auction, she added, the winning bidder will have a chance to pursue the furniture.
The industrialist and philanthropist Henry Clay Frick admired his 18th-century gilded furnishings almost as much as the old master paintings that graced his palatial home. The staff of the Frick Collection is now trying to draw attention to the objects between the canvases in his former mansion.
In the past year, the museum’s publications and shows have focused on the institution’s tapestries, Sèvres porcelain and Limoges enamels; the staff has produced a handbook on the decorative arts collection over all. In November, an exhibition will be devoted to Pierre Gouthière, a talented but now somewhat obscure 18th-century gilder.
On a recent morning, Charlotte Vignon, the Frick Collection’s decorative arts curator, circled the dismantled components of a marble table from the 1780s that is being cleaned and restored. Gouthière’s Paris workshop trimmed the marble with bronze arrows, fruit, flowers, leaves, snakes, ribbons and a woman’s face enveloped in beads and braids. The reliefs are as lacy as intricate jewelry, and the foliage and petals are botanically accurate; their facets would have reflected candlelight in aristocrats’ salons.
Gouthière brought life to every single detail,” said Ms. Vignon, who has collaborated on a monograph in tandem with the exhibition, “Pierre Gouthière: Virtuoso Gilder at the French Court.
It is not clear how Gouthière, who was born in 1732 as the son of a saddle maker in northeastern France, rose to become the pre-eminent bronze caster and gilder of the late 18th century. But by the 1760s he had married the widow of his metalsmithing mentor and his clients had included kings and their inner circles.
After the French Revolution, many of Gouthière’s patrons were executed or went into bankruptcy or exile. He died in poverty in 1813 after decades of legal battles over unpaid bills. “He had to go from trial to trial,” Ms. Vignon said.
The Frick will display about 30 pieces, and the exhibition monograph will analyze about 50; it is the first major book devoted to Gouthière since 1920. His sculpted ornamentation appears on clocks, vases, sconces, fireplaces and candelabra, with details like furrowed brows on sea gods and intricately serrated swan beaks. The monograph’s authors have scoured the archives of aristocrats for references to such wares and have located drawings, prints and photos depicting lost works by the gilder.
The show will include a few pieces that came on the market last year. In April a pair of lidded Japanese porcelain bowls adorned with Gouthière’s bronze work and mounted on gilded bases sold for about $3 million at Sotheby’s in London. In October, a pair of porcelain-and-marble candelabra on Gouthière mounts surfaced at the Academy Mansion in Manhattan in a show organized by dealers from Paris and Rome.
The Getty Museum, which owns several pieces attributed to Gouthière, is displaying them alongside recent acquisitions of around 30 gilded clocks, vases, candelabra and andirons fashioned by his Parisian competitors.






In Tokyo this weekend, the sumo wrestler Kotoshogiku won the first of the year’s six top-level tournaments. The result was big news because of his nationality: Japanese.
Since the 1990s, foreigners have come to dominate the top level of sumo, Japan’s national sport. Though there are six two-week top-tier tournaments, or honbasho, every year, Kotoshogiku’s victory on Sunday was the first for a Japanese wrestler in 10 years. Over the past decade, tournaments have been won by a host of Mongolians, but also a Bulgarian and an Estonian, creating an identity crisis among fans and officials of the sport, which has roots that date back centuries.
A sport that seems to embody Japan got its first foreign-born champion in 1972 when Jesse Kuhaulua, a Hawaiian known by the sumo name Takamiyama, won the Nagoya event.
The first true foreign-born superstar was Chad Rowan, a Hawaiian known as Akebono. Rowan, a 6-foot-8, 450-pounder, was the first foreigner to be named yokozuna, the sport’s highest rank. Yokozuna cannot be demoted, and only a handful of wrestlers hold the title at the same time, so being appointed one by sumo’s council of elders is considered a high honor as well as a ticket to fame and riches.
Akebono’s rivalry with the Japanese brothers Takanohana and Wakanohana, two other yokozuna, sparked the sport in the 1990s.
But when the wave of stars from Mongolia ― which has its own rich wrestling tradition ― came into the sport around the turn of the century, there were few Japanese who could challenge them.
The first great Mongolian, Asashoryu, won 25 top-level tournaments, but ruffled feathers in Japan, as several of the foreigners have, for behavior seen as not in keeping with sumo tradition. Celebrating excessively (or indeed at all), for example, is considered a violation of the sport’s strict decorum.
Despite this code, the sport has recently had its share of scandals, including allegations of match fixing.
The current Michael Jordan of sumo is Hakuho, a Mongolian who has won 35 tournaments over the past 10 years, breaking the record of the 1960s Japanese great Taiho.
A honbasho consist of 15 matches, and both Hakuho and Kotoshogiku were 10-0 going into their 11th bouts last Wednesday. After the ritual purification of the ring with salt, the much-anticipated match, like most sumo bouts, was over in seconds. Kotoshogiku seized the initiative, pushing Hakuho back and out of the ring.
Kotoshogiku finished the tournament 14-1 to win the title, while Hakuho wound up 12-3 and tied for second with another Mongolian star, Harumafuji.
The rising popularity of other sports with the younger generation, who see sumo as old-fashioned, has been blamed for the dearth of Japanese sumo stars. Soccer, for instance, has grown in popularity, while television ratings for baseball and sumo have slumped.
The drought is reminiscent of those at other nationally iconic events like the Tour de France (no French winner since 1985) and Wimbledon (no British women’s winner since 1977, and just one British men’s winner since 1936).
Was Kotoshogiku’s victory a passing of the torch to a new generation of Japanese stars? Perhaps not. Kotoshogiku celebrated his first top-level win Sunday at age 31, while Hakuho, with his 34 wins, is still only 30.
There are five more tournaments this year, and a nation of sumo fans will be hoping Kotoshogiku is not a one-hit wonder.



Take a look back at some of the most popular TV programs of the mid-1960s ― “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” “Bewitched,” even “The Beverly Hillbillies” ― and what do you see?
Like today, middle-class Americans typically had washing machines and air-conditioning, telephones and cars. The Internet and video games were not yet invented. But life, over all, did not look that different.
There were TVs and radios in most homes. Millions of people worked in downtown offices and lived in suburbs, connected by multilane highways. Americans’ average life expectancy at birth was 70, only eight years less than it is today.
But flash back 50 years earlier. Then, less than half the population lived in cities. Though Ford Model T’s were starting to roll off the assembly line, Americans typically moved around on horse-drawn buggies on dirt or cobblestone roads. Refrigerators or TVs? Most homes weren’t even wired for electricity. And average life expectancy was only 53.
Americans like to think they live in an era of rapid and unprecedented change, but this kind of comparison ― pitting the momentous changes of the mid-20th century against the seemingly more modest progress of our present era ― raises a critical question about the nation’s future prosperity.
What does this portend for our well-being over the next half century? Has technological progress slowed for good?
The idea that America’s best days are behind us sits in sharp tension with the high-tech optimism radiating from the offices of the technology start-ups and venture capital firms of Silicon Valley. But it lies at the heart of the current political unrest. And it is about to elbow its way forcefully into the national conversation.
Robert J. Gordon, a professor of economics at Northwestern University who has patiently developed the proposition in a series of research papers over the last few years, has bundled his arguments into an ambitious new book, “The Rise and Fall of American Growth” (Princeton University Press).
The Rise and Fall of American Growth, Princeton University Press)。
The hefty tome, minutely detailed yet dauntingly broad in scope, offers a lively portrayal of the evolution of American living standards since the Civil War. It also adds up to a dispiriting forecast for American prosperity in the decades to come. “This book,” he writes in the introduction, “ends by doubting that the standard of living of today’s youths will double that of their parents, unlike the standard of living of each previous generation of Americans back to the late 19th century.
Innovation will trundle along at the same pace of the last 40 years, Professor Gordon predicts. Despite the burst of progress of the Internet era, total factor productivity ― which captures innovation’s contribution to growth ― rose over that period at about one-third the pace of the previous five decades.
That’s hardly the worst part of the story. The labor force will continue to decline, as aging baby boomers leave the work force and women’s labor supply plateaus. And gains in education, an important driver of productivity that expanded sharply in the 20th century, will contribute little.
Moreover, the growing concentration of income means that whatever the growth rate, most of the population will barely share in its fruits. Altogether, Professor Gordon argues, the disposable income of the bottom 99 percent of the population, which has expanded about 2 percent per year since the late 19th century, will expand over the next few decades at a rate little above zero.
Professor Gordon’s take on the future is, of course, not infallible. Economists generally agree that future growth will be slowed by the headwinds of demography, education and income distribution. But the productivity slowdown of recent decades was clearly affected by one-time factors, including a shattering financial crisis. He is on less solid ground forecasting weakness decades into the future.
Economists, in fact, have no trustworthy theory of what produces technological breakthroughs. Joel Mokyr, an economic historian who also teaches at Northwestern, argues there are reasons to expect enormous breakthroughs are in the offing.
Science has piggybacked on technology ever since Galileo used a telescope to develop a new understanding of the heavens. This new science, in turn, led to new technological innovations.
What Professor Gordon fails to account for, Professor Mokyr argues, is that the information technology revolution and other recent developments produced mind-blowing tools and techniques, from gene-sequencing machines to computers that analyze mountains of data at blistering speed. This is creating vast new opportunities for innovation, from health care to materials technology and beyond.
The tools available to science have been improving at a dazzling rate,” he told me. “I’m not sure how, but the world of technology in 30 to 40 years’ time will be vastly different than it is today.
Nonetheless, Professor Gordon’s argument is not easy to dismiss. He does not forecast that technological progress will slow to a crawl. His argument, rather, is that the explosion of innovation and prosperity from 1920 through 1970 was a one-time phenomenon. From now on, progress will continue at the more gradual pace of both the last 40 years and the period before 1920.
There is plenty of room in my forecast for evolutionary change,” he told me. “What is lacking is sharp, discrete change.
He is not the only economist forecasting slower progress, now that the burst of productivity gains of the late 1990s and early 2000s has waned. “Growth in educational attainment, developed-economy R&D intensity and population are all likely to be slower in the future than in the past,” John G. Fernald of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and Charles I. Jones of Stanford wrote in a recent article.
Professor Gordon’s view of slowing technological opportunities meshes with other bits of evidence.
Ben S. Bernanke, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve who is now at the Brookings Institution, points out that long-term interest rates have been declining for a very long time. This is in response partly to the accumulation of savings in China and other developing economies, which have been buying Treasury bonds hand over fist. But it also suggests that investors, whether they realize it or not, may agree with Professor Gordon’s proposition.
People who invest money in the markets are saying the rate of return on capital investments is lower than it was 15 or 30 years ago,” Mr. Bernanke said. “Gordon’s forecast is not without some market reality.
Other strands of data point in this direction. Business dynamism, measured by the role of new companies in the economy, appears to be waning. The share of employment in companies less than five years old dropped from about 19 percent in 1982 to 11 percent in 2011.
11%。
Skepticism is warranted, to be sure. Since the time of Thomas Malthus, eras of depressed expectations like our own have inspired predictions of doom and gloom that were proved wrong once economies turned up a few years down the road.
For reasons I have never understood, people like to hear that the world is going to hell,” the economic historian Deirdre N. McCloskey of the University of Illinois, Chicago, wrote in an essay about “Capital in the Twenty-First Century,” the blockbuster about income inequality by the French economist Thomas Piketty. “Yet pessimism has consistently been a poor guide to the modern economic world.
Optimism, though, is also subject to cognitive biases. It’s not just that the income of our optimistic techno-entrepreneurs is growing faster than gross domestic product. A lot of new innovation ― the rockets to vacations in orbit, the Apple Watch and Google Glass ― also seems custom-designed for them.
If you are sitting in Silicon Valley, rich and at the frontier of technology,” said Lawrence F. Katz of Harvard, “it is probably true that things are getting better.
The same can’t always be said for the rest of us.



No scandal in recent years has hung over the art market as heavily as the Knoedler & Company forgery case.
At its heart lies a mystery. Was Knoedler, the distinguished old gallery that sold more than 30 fake paintings said to be by Pollock, de Kooning and other titans of Abstract Expressionism, in on the scam? Or were the gallery and its longtime director, Ann Freedman, cruelly hoodwinked along with collectors who together paid around $63 million for the bogus works?
This week the puzzle may start to unravel: The first trial to arise from the sales, in a lawsuit involving the 2004 purchase of a fraudulent Rothko, is to open on Monday in United States District Court in Manhattan. A parade of witnesses from the art world are to testify, just possibly including Glafira Rosales, the former Long Island dealer who, for 15 years, consigned fakes to Knoedler, passing them off as masterworks from a mysterious collection based in Zurich and Mexico City.
All of them had actually been painted by a Chinese immigrant in Queens.
It’s a unique opportunity for a public hearing of the machinations of the art world, which are usually very discreet,” said Nicholas M. O’Donnell, an art lawyer in Boston.
Central to the trial will be the testimony of Ms. Freedman, the art expert who was Knoedler’s director in 2011, when the 165-year-old gallery abruptly closed in advance of what turned out to be an avalanche of lawsuits.
Among the likely witnesses is Domenico De Sole, chairman of Sotheby’s, who with his family paid $8.3 million for the fake Rothko, “Untitled, 1956,” a painting featuring large red and black rectangles.
It turned out to be one of the fakes that investigators say Ms. Rosales supplied to Knoedler, bargaining that the gallery’s reputation and the traditional opacity of art market transactions would mask the fraud.
In 2013 Ms. Rosales pleaded guilty to numerous criminal charges arising from the scam.
At stake in the first trial is a suit filed by the De Soles in which they are seeking $25 million in damages from Ms. Freedman, Knoedler and the gallery’s holding company. Though lawyers expect Ms. Rosales to be called to testify at the trial, they said that she would probably cite her Fifth Amendment right not to do so because she is still awaiting sentencing in the criminal case.
The De Soles argue that Ms. Freedman knew that the Rosales works were counterfeit or consciously ignored obvious signs of fraud for her own personal gain.
It really comes down to knowledge,” said Steven R. Schindler, a lawyer who represents two art experts listed as witnesses in the suit. “There will be circumstantial evidence about what she knew and when, and the jury will have to decide whether or not she knew these were fakes, and that the buyer was justified in relying on whatever representation she made.
Collectors say Ms. Freedman should have realized the paintings were fake because, among other things, they lacked documentation, the stories about their provenance shifted, and Ms. Rosales was selling them at far-below-market prices. (She paid Ms. Rosales $950,000 for the fake Rothko, a fraction of the ultimate $8.3 million sale price.
Ms. Rosales said the paintings had been inherited by the son of a private collector who bought them directly from the artists.
Ms. Freedman has said that she tried to discover the identity of the collector, but that Ms. Rosales would not divulge it. The De Soles say Ms. Freedman told them that she knew the collector’s identity but had to keep it confidential.
The evidence will show definitively that only Ann Freedman knew about all of the red flags,” said Gregory A. Clarick, the lawyer for the De Soles, “and the red flags signaled clear as day that the works were fake.
Ms. Freedman counters that she was so convinced the paintings were real that she acquired three for herself, and that what later were viewed as warning signs were there for others to see, too. She says a number of experts also vouched for their authenticity. Testimony from those experts about what they told her is to be part of the trial, which is expected to last about a month.
If the world is tricked, if the world believed, why is Ann Freedman being singled out?” said Luke Nikas, her lawyer. “They went through some of the most prominent hands in the art world, and passed before some of the most expert eyes.
If Mr. Nikas is right, the trial may end up becoming not just a dispute over a single sale from 2004 but also an examination of the extent to which experts can reliably determine authenticity, even as art is increasingly treated like currency.
With all the money that has poured into the market since then,” Mr. O’Donnell said, “these questions have become even more important.
Among those expected to appear are Christopher Rothko, the son of the painter; James Martin, a materials expert and one of the first people to declare the works to be fakes; James Coddington, chief conservator at the Museum of Modern Art; Laili Nasr, a curator at the National Gallery of Art in Washington; other victims of Ms. Rosales; and art appraisers and forensic accountants.
David Anfam, an art historian and Rothko expert whom Ms. Freedman cited as one of the people whose judgment about the painting she had relied on, is also scheduled to testify. Her lawyers say that Mr. Anfam was enthusiastic in his endorsement of the Rosales paintings. Testifying in a deposition, however, Mr. Anfam seemed to take issue with Ms. Freedman’s characterization, saying that he “never formally authenticated” any of the Rosales works.
Amelia K. Brancov, an art market lawyer, said, “It is going to be a question of what were the experts asked to do and what were they told about the background of the paintings.
In a Federal District Court ruling in October, explaining why the trial would be allowed to proceed, Judge Paul G. Gardephe said that there was “ample circumstantial evidence demonstrating that Freedman acted with fraudulent intent and understood that the Rosales paintings were not authentic.
Judge Gardephe concluded that Ms. Freedman had exaggerated the significance of what the experts had told her about the authenticity of the works.
Nonetheless, now that the case is at trial, several lawyers said it could be difficult to prove to a jury that she knowingly committed fraud.
It is really hard to make a convincing case about what someone else thought,” Mr. O’Donnell said.
In arguing that she believed in their authenticity, Ms. Freedman is expected to point out that she exhibited the works publicly around the world and owned several of them. (She swapped a Diebenkorn she owned for a so-called Rothko; bought a fake Motherwell for $15,000; and bought a bogus Pollock for $280,000, even though the artist’s signature was misspelled “Pollok.” Judge Gardephe concluded that the exhibiting of the works created “a facade of credibility,” and that Ms. Freedman used personal ownership as a “promotional device.
Ms. Freedman will have to explain why she continued selling the Rosales paintings even when problems were flagged. In 2003, for example, the nonprofit International Foundation for Art Research declined to vouch for a painting said to be a Pollock, leading Ms. Freedman to repay $2 million to a collector who had bought it two years earlier. Mr. Nikas, however, said Ms. Freedman had shown the foundation’s report to other experts, who judged it irrelevant.
In all, the scandal has bred 10 lawsuits. Five were settled out of court, and another four are unlikely to go to trial for a year at least, lawyers say.
Ms. Freedman has not been named as a target in the criminal investigation. Led by the United States Attorney’s Office in Manhattan, the authorities are seeking to extradite the boyfriend of Ms. Rosales and his brother from Spain to face charges of conspiracy, money laundering and fraud.
The Queens painter identified by federal authorities as the forger, Pei-Shen Qian, has been charged with conspiracy, fraud and making false statements, but has fled to China. Authorities said that he earned sums ranging from several hundred dollars to as much as $9,000 to create a work.
In an ABC News interview in 2013 from Shanghai, Mr. Qian said that he never knew his works were being sold as fake masterpieces.
If you look at my bank account,” he said, “you’ll see there is no income.



SIEM REAP, Cambodia ― The giant mural in the foyer depicting a smiling stone face offers a mere taste of the grandiosity within the new Angkor Panorama Museum here. Inside, a 360-degree painted vista covers an area the size of nearly four basketball courts. Over 45,000 figures populate this cyclorama, a depiction of 12th-century Angkorian history.
The museum, which opened in December, is a sweeping homage to what historians call one of the greatest cities in the world between the ninth and 15th centuries and the capital of the Khmer empire. But almost everything that went into this building ― the money, the concept, the design and the artists ― came not from Cambodia but from North Korea, namely, Mansudae, the largest art studio in that country.
Mansudae)。
At a time when much of the world’s focus is on North Korea’s mercurial leadership and nuclear capabilities, this studio’s work is quietly making its way beyond the borders of that hermit kingdom. In recent years, monuments and sculptures made by Mansudae artists, modern-day masters of Socialist Realism, have popped up in Africa, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and even Germany.
The Angkor Panorama Museum is the studio’s most ambitious foreign project. It took 63 artists, flown in from North Korea, four months to paint the cyclorama.
Mansudae has great talent and a good reputation in artwork, painting and construction,” said Yit Chandaroat, acting director of museums for Apsara, the government agency responsible for managing the Angkor complex, explaining why Cambodia chose its partner.
Mansudae Art Studio in Pyongyang, founded in 1959, is one of the world’s biggest art factories. It employs about 4,000 people, including 800 to 900 of North Korea’s most talented artists, according to Pier Luigi Cecioni, its representative in the United States and Europe.
The studio produces a variety of works, including most of the propaganda art and sculptures that dot North Korea. Its artists are said to be the only ones permitted to portray that country’s ruling family, the Kims. In 1972, it built a 66-foot-high statue of Kim Il-sung, North Korea’s founding leader and the grandfather of the current leader, on a hill in Pyongyang, the capital. A second, similarly sized likeness of Kim Jong-il, Kim Il-sung’s son and successor, was added beside the original in 2012 after Kim Jong-il’s death.
Starting in the 1990s, Mansudae also began taking on outside projects. Governments in Southeast Asia and Africa have commissioned its artists for large-scale projects at low costs, among them the African Renaissance Monument in Dakar, Senegal, and the Fairy Tale Fountain in Frankfurt. The studio also maintains a gallery in the 798 Art District in Beijing, opposite the Pace Gallery and the Faurschou Foundation.
Mansudae’s overseas division first approached the Council for the Development of Cambodia, the government’s investment board, with a proposal to build a museum in Siem Reap several years ago, Mr. Yit said.
Cambodia and North Korea have historically maintained strong ties, based largely on the personal relationship between Kim Il-sung and King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia, who died in 2012.
In the 1970s, that North Korean leader gave King Sihanouk, who once referred to Mr. Kim as “more than a friend, more than a brother,” a palace outside Pyongyang. During his many years in exile, the Cambodian monarch spent several months annually in North Korea and even wrote and directed a series of films starring North Korean actors.
Today, North Korea operates several restaurants in Cambodia, part of a growing overseas restaurant franchise that experts say is an important revenue generator for the financially struggling government in Pyongyang.
Unlike the restaurants, however, experts say that Mansudae, though state-run, enjoys relative autonomy from the government, including on decisions involving foreign outreach.
I don’t see this museum as an attempt to project soft power,” said Nicholas Bonner, founder of the Beijing gallery Koryo Studio, who has worked with Mansudae for more than 20 years. “Mansudae is a massive studio, and they need to keep working to bring revenue in from inside and outside of the country.
The Angkor museum differs from past Mansudae projects in one significant way. According to museum officials and experts, it is the first in which Mansudae, which usually works on a commission basis, has invested a large amount of money.
It doesn’t seem to fit into the profit-making aspect that we usually hear about Mansudae,” said Adam Cathcart, a lecturer at the University of Leeds in England. “But then again, there’s always something going on behind the scenes when it comes to North Korea.
Neither Mansudae nor the North Korean Embassy in the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, responded to requests for comment relayed by email, telephone and Cambodian museum officials.
Construction of the Angkor Panorama Museum began in 2011. Mansudae designed the structure and the cyclorama in consultation with a committee made up of Cambodian government officials, Mr. Yit said.
Proceeds from the museum are scheduled to be disbursed in three stages. Initially, revenue will go to Mansudae. After 10 years (or less, if costs are recovered before then), both sides will share revenue. And in the third and final stage, the museum ― both the property and the management ― will be transferred to Apsara.
Long Kosal, a spokesman for Apsara, said the museum was part of a long-term plan to diversify attractions at the Angkor complex and minimize the impact of growing numbers of tourists at the temples. More than 2.5 million foreigners visited the complex last year, up from about 400,000 in 2000, Mr. Long said. He said he expected an influx of tourists to the museum soon, after the central ticket booth for the complex is moved to a new building next to the museum, which is not formally part of the complex. The entrance fee for the cyclorama section is $15 for foreign tourists.
In the meantime, museum officials say they are averaging only about 20 visitors a day. On a recent afternoon, there were almost none to be seen. As one of the few approached the main hall, a worker rushed to turn on the lights, explaining that the staff had been instructed to keep the lights and air-conditioning at a minimum to save money.
It’s very hot and humid here, not cool like back home,” a young North Korean woman working in the museum cafe said in fluent English. “It’s been difficult to adjust.



When Dr. Paul Kalanithi sent his best friend an email in May 2013 revealing that he had terminal cancer, he wrote: “The good news is that I’ve already outlived two Brontës, Keats and Stephen Crane. The bad news is that I haven’t written anything.” It was a jokey way of dealing with the unthinkable but also an indication of Dr. Kalanithi’s tremendous ambition. He had led a fascinating life and was not about to leave it unchronicled.
The bittersweet news is that in the 22 months left to him, Dr. Kalanithi, who died at 37, went on to write a great, indelible book, “When Breath Becomes Air,” that is as intimate and illuminating as Atul Gawande’s “Being Mortal,” to cite only one recent example of a doctor’s book that has had exceptionally wide appeal. To paraphrase Abraham Verghese’s introduction, to read this book is to feel that Dr. Kalanithi still lives, with enormous power to influence the lives of others even though he is gone.
Dr. Verghese suggests not only reading “When Breath Becomes Air” but also listening to the overwhelming response it prompts in you. I guarantee that finishing this book and then forgetting about it is simply not an option. There is so much here that lingers, and not just about matters of life and death: One of the most poignant things about Dr. Kalanithi’s story is that he had postponed learning how to live while pursuing his career in neurosurgery. By the time he was ready to enjoy a life outside the operating room, what he needed to learn was how to die.
Dr. Kalanithi’s abiding and eclectic interest in serious literature serves him well throughout “When Breath Becomes Air.” Its hauntingly beautiful title is a paraphrase from the poem “Caelica 83,” part of a 17th-century sonnet series by Fulke Greville. It’s obscure but could not be more apt. Thomas Browne’s “Religio Medici” was the book he loved most.
Religio Medici)。
He wrote his own book with great determination but also great difficulty, to the point of wearing silver-lined gloves to use the trackpad when his fingertips began to crack during chemotherapy. (In the epilogue and afterword, by his wife, Lucy Kalanithi, also a doctor, she says that the manuscript had to be completed posthumously.) But the difficulty doesn’t show: Dr. Kalanithi knows how to make a paragraph fly.
I flipped through the CT scan images, the diagnosis obvious: the lungs were matted with innumerable tumors, the spine deformed, a full lobe of the liver obliterated. Cancer, widely disseminated. I was a neurological resident entering my final year of training. Over the last six years, I’d examined scores of such scans, on the off chance that some procedure might benefit the patient. But this scan was different: it was my own.
With those facts established, he is free to flash back through the lifetime of experiences that got him to this point: an unusual love-hate relationship with medicine as the thing that kept his father, a cardiologist, away from home at night but also struck him as a calling rather than a profession. Once his family moved from Westchester, N.Y., to Arizona, he and his brothers became essentially home-schooled by a strict mother who had no idea what truly excited Paul, the neurosurgeon in waiting. She worried about her sons and drugs, “never suspecting that the most intoxicating thing I’d experienced, by far, was the volume of romantic poetry she’d handed me the previous week.
With the seeker’s restlessness that seems not to have left him until his last breath, he went on to accrue two B.A.s and an M.A. in literature at Stanford, then a Master of Philosophy at Cambridge, before graduating cum laude from the Yale School of Medicine. He returned to Stanford for a residency in neurological surgery and a postdoctoral fellowship in neuroscience. His training was almost complete when the bad diagnosis hit.
In the first half of the book, Dr. Kalanithi provides a good set of anecdotes about how he goes from medical resident to seasoned doctor: first cadaver (formaldehyde stimulated his appetite), first births and deaths on the same day (which made him mindful of “Waiting for Godot,” with its line about “birth astride of a grave”). From the start, workaholic though he is, he understands patients’ needs better than most young doctors do.
And then everything changes. In a single moment of recognition, everything Dr. Kalanithi has imagined for himself and his wife evaporates, and a new future has to be imagined. Should they have a child, or would that make it harder for him to die? (They do. The book is dedicated to their daughter, Cady.) A job at Stanford for which he was the prime candidate? Not happening. Another good job that would require the Kalanithis to move to Wisconsin? Too far from his oncologist. Long-term plans of any kind? Well, what does long-term mean now? Does he have a day, a month, a year, six years, what? He’s heard the advice about living one day at a time, but what’s he supposed to do with that day when he doesn’t know how many others remain?
When Breath Becomes Air” is gripping from the start. But it becomes even more so as Dr. Kalanithi tries to reinvent himself in various ways with no idea what will happen. He can’t gauge how much strength his body still has until he tests it, and sometimes the consequences are horrific. He no longer knows who he is or what he wants. His whole sense of identity is shaken. And for a terrible period when his oncologist is away, he is treated as a problem and not a patient by an inept medical resident who nearly hastens his death by denying him one of the drugs he desperately needs.
Part of this book’s tremendous impact comes from the obvious fact that its author was such a brilliant polymath. And part comes from the way he conveys what happened to him ― passionately working and striving, deferring gratification, waiting to live, learning to die ― so well. None of it is maudlin. Nothing is exaggerated. As he wrote to a friend: “It’s just tragic enough and just imaginable enough.” And just important enough to be unmissable.



The painful subjects of mourning and burying the dead are drawing attention at museums and auction houses, while some attractions in the field are reaching the ends of their runs.
In the last year the Museum of Death in Los Angeles opened a New Orleans branch, where coffins and autopsy equipment are displayed, and a show at the Palace of Versailles, “The King Is Dead” (through Feb. 21), commemorates the 300th anniversary of Louis XIV’s fatal bout of gangrene and examines his embalmment, elaborate funeral and interment. There have been shows and books about Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, the graves of early Maryland settlers, the evolution of gravestone and coffin makers’ tools, the significance of photographing corpses and mourning attire.
Funeral homes, cemeteries and related businesses have set up exhibition spaces, including the Simpson Funeral Museum in Chatham, Va., and the Jackson Funeral Services Museum in Newport, Ark. The National Museum of Funeral History in Houston has acquired the museum collection of Redinger Funeral Home in Seiling, Okla., and in Illinois, items from a funeral museum in Springfield that closed in 2009 have been transferred to the Kibbe Museum in Carthage.
Kibbe Museum)。
On Jan. 22, Sotheby’s in New York will offer much of the collection of the Museum of Mourning Art, which was maintained by the Arlington Cemetery in Drexel Hill, Penn. (The cemetery’s website described it as a “permanent museum.” Well, tempus fugit.) The material comes from the estate of Irvin and Anita Schorsch, collectors whose family has long owned the cemetery; they displayed it in a building modeled after George Washington’s home, Mount Vernon. The Sotheby’s lots include a miniature model skeleton in a matching mahogany coffin ($300 to $500), invitations to British funerals held between 1694 and 1781 (a group of 11 is estimated to bring $800 to $1,200) and a wrought-iron British gun used to deter intruders in cemeteries ($300 to $500). Gold jewelry commemorating deceased loved ones contains images of gravestones, skulls and skeletons as well as wisps of hair said to have come from George Washington ($8,000 to $12,000).
Some of the field’s more outlandish auction lots last year included a grave marker for Marilyn Monroe that was later replaced; it sold for $212,500 at Julien’s Auctions in Beverly Hills, Calif. A gold mourning ring dated 1776, commemorating a New Hampshire sea captain named Gregory Purcell, sold for $3,360 at Northeast Auctions in Portsmouth, N.H. The ring is on view in Portsmouth at the former boardinghouse of his widow, Sarah Purcell ― now a museum named after her most famous tenant, the naval hero John Paul Jones.
Gerald W. R. Ward, a curator for the Portsmouth Historical Society, said the ring tends to cause “some sort of amazement and confusion” in visitors as they learn about the early American practice of remembering loved ones with rings inscribed with death dates.
The first waves of European and American maritime traders to reach Chinese ports returned home with souvenir paintings depicting the slivers of harbors where Westerners were allowed to work, shop and sightsee. Chinese artists tailored the images to appeal to tourists. They accurately rendered the steeples of churches where foreigners worshiped amid pagodas, as well as international flags flying over colonnaded wharf buildings and ship riggings.
Dozens of these views from the 18th and 19th centuries, painted on silk, canvas, paper and sheets of glass, will go on sale next week in New York.
From Thursday to Jan. 31, China trade paintings from the Martyn Gregory Gallery in London (with prices into the five figures) will fill rooms at the Mallett antiques store in New York. From next Friday to Jan. 24, dealers, including Earle D. Vandekar of Knightsbridge and Vincent Callahan, will bring related artworks to the Art, Design & Antiques Show at St. Ignatius Loyola Church on Park Avenue. From Wednesday to next Friday, Sotheby’s and Christie’s will offer Chinese harbor and ship panoramas as well as portraits of merchants and trade officials, with estimates from $3,000 to $40,000 each. Bonhams will follow suit in a Jan. 28 sale with paintings estimated from $700 to $35,000.
Because the works were rarely dated, researchers did some sleuthing to determine the age of the paintings: exploring when particular flag designs were introduced, various buildings were finished or burned down, and different types of ships and specific vessels embarked or ended up wrecked. Occasionally the works can be dated because they were copied from prints or photographs; labels on some now at Christie’s advertised the artist’s ability to turn daguerreotypes into paintings.
A handful of the pieces for sale this month are signed or attributed to recognized painters, including Guan Zuolin (known to Western patrons as Spoilum) and his grandson Guan Qiao Chang (also called Lamqua). Little is known of the artists’ lives and work habits. The shoreline workshops all used similar inexpensive pigments, which often develop spidery cracks. They collaborated with one another; different employees would specialize in rendering ships, faces or landscape details.
A few of the paintings now on the market show disasters striking, such as fires that leveled harbor towns and storms that swamped ships. But mostly the artists depict calm streets, idyllic motionless waters, clear skies and unwrinkled puffed sails, with a few floating brothels set up for foreigners.
Becky MacGuire, a senior specialist at Christie’s, said that “stillness” was a common theme in the trading port scenery.



